	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="book-2" id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
 			<p>The time is midnight, the day the same as that which saw this irruption of Hickory into Professor Darling’s observatory; the scene that of Miss Dare’s own room in the northeast tower. She is standing before a table with a letter in her hand and a look upon her face that, if seen, would have added much to the puzzlement of the detectives.</p>
			<p>The letter was from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orcutt and ran thus:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>I have seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mansell, and have engaged myself to undertake his defence. When I tell you that out of the hundreds of cases I have tried in my still short life, I have lost but a small percentage, you will understand what this means.</p>
				<p>In pursuance to your wishes, I mentioned your name to the prisoner with an intimation that I had a message from you to deliver. But he stopped me before I could utter a word. “I receive no communication from Miss Dare!” he declared, and, anxious as I really was to do your bidding, I was compelled to refrain; for his tone was one of hatred and his look that of ineffable scorn.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>This was all, but it was enough. Imogene had read these words over three times, and now was ready to plunge the letter into the flame of a candle to destroy it. As it burned, her grief and indignation took words:</p>
			<p>“He is alienated, completely alienated,” she gasped; “and I do not wonder. But,” and here the full majesty of her nature broke forth in one grand gesture, “he shall hear me yet! As there is a God above, he shall hear me yet, even if it has to be in the open court and in the presence of judge and jury!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
