<body>
<p>"SO there are two of us! I thought as much when
I first set eyes upon your face in Buffalo!"</p>

<p>This exclamation, uttered in a dry and musing tone,
woke Mr. Byrd from the stupor into which this astonishing
discovery had thrown him. Advancing upon the
stranger, who in size, shape, and coloring was almost the
<i>fac-simile</i> of the person he had so successfully represented,
Mr. Byrd looked him scrutinizingly over.</p>

<p>The man bore the ordeal with equanimity; he even
smiled.</p>

<p>"You don't recognize me, I see."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd at once recoiled.</p>

<p>"Ah!" cried he, "you are that Jack-in-the-box,
Brown!"</p>

<p>"<i>Alias</i> Frank Hickory, at your service."</p>

<p>This name, so unexpected, called up a flush of mingled
surprise and indignation to Mr. Byrd's cheek.</p>

<p>"I thought&mdash;&mdash;" he began<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_215" id="Page_215">[215]</a></span>.</p>

<p>"Don't think," interrupted the other, who, when
excited, affected laconicism, "know." Then, with affability,
proceeded, "You are the gentleman&mdash;&mdash;" he paid
that much deference to Mr. Byrd's air and manner, "who
I was told might lend me a helping hand in this Clemmens
affair. I didn't recognize you before, sir. Wouldn't
have stood in your way if I had. Though, to be sure,
I did want to see this matter through myself. I thought
I had the right. And I've done it, too, as you must
acknowledge, if you have been present in this terrible
place very long."</p>

<p>This self-satisfied, if not boastful, allusion to a scene in
which this strange being had played so unworthy, if not
unjustifiable, a part, sent a thrill of revulsion through Mr.
Byrd. Drawing hastily back with an instinct of dislike
he could not conceal, he cast a glance through the thicket
of trees that spread beyond the open door, and pointedly
asked:</p>

<p>"Was there no way of satisfying yourself of the guilt of
Craik Mansell, except by enacting a farce that may lead
to the life-long remorse of the woman out of whose love
you have made a trap?"</p>

<p>A slow flush, the first, possibly, that had visited the
hardy cheek of this thick-skinned detective for years,
crept over the face of Frank Hickory.</p>

<p>"I don't mean she shall ever know," he sullenly protested,
kicking at the block upon which he had been sitting.
"But it <i>was</i> a mean trick," he frankly enough<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_216" id="Page_216">[216]</a></span>
admitted the next moment. "If I hadn't been the
tough old hickory knot that I am, I couldn't have done
it, I suppose. The storm, too, made it seem a bit trifling.
But&mdash;&mdash; Well, well!" he suddenly interjected, in a
more cheerful tone, "'tis too late now for tears and
repentance. The thing is done, and can't be undone.
And, at all events, I reckon we are both satisfied <i>now</i> as
to who killed Widow Clemmens!"</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd could not resist a slight sarcasm. "I thought
you were satisfied in that regard before?" said he. "At
least, I understood that at a certain time you were very
positive it was Mr. Hildreth."</p>

<p>"So I was," the fellow good-naturedly allowed; "so I
was. The byways of a crime like this are dreadful dark
and uncertain. It isn't strange that a fellow gets lost
sometimes. But I got a jog on my elbow that sent me
into the right path," said he, "as, perhaps, you did too,
sir, eh?"</p>

<p>Not replying to this latter insinuation, Mr. Byrd
quietly repeated:</p>

<p>"You got a jog on your elbow? When, may I ask?"</p>

<p>"Three days ago, <i>just!</i>" was the emphatic reply.</p>

<p>"And from whom?"</p>

<p>Instead of replying, the man leaned back against the
wall of the hut and looked at his interlocutor in silence.</p>

<p>"Are we going to join hands over this business?" he
cried, at last, "or are you thinking of pushing your way
on alone after you have got from me all that I know?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_217" id="Page_217">[217]</a></span></p>

<p>The question took Mr. Byrd by surprise.</p>

<p>He had not thought of the future. He was as yet too
much disturbed by his memories of the past. To hide
his discomfiture, he began to pace the floor, an operation
which his thoroughly wet condition certainly made
advisable.</p>

<p>"I have no wish to rob you of any glory you may hope
to reap from the success of the plot you have carried on
here to-day," he presently declared, with some bitterness;
"but if this Craik Mansell <i>is</i> guilty, I suppose it
is my duty to help you in the collection of all suitable
and proper evidence against him."</p>

<p>"Then," said the other, who had been watching him
with rather an anxious eye, "let us to work." And, sitting
down on the table, he motioned to Mr. Byrd to take
a seat upon the block at his side.</p>

<p>But the latter kept up his walk.</p>

<p>Hickory surveyed him for a moment in silence, then he
said:</p>

<p>"You must have something against this young man, or
you wouldn't be here. What is it? What first set you
thinking about Craik Mansell?"</p>

<p>Now, this was a question Mr. Byrd could not and
would not answer. After what had just passed in the
hut, he felt it impossible to mention to this man the name
of Imogene Dare in connection with that of the nephew
of Mrs. Clemmens. He therefore waived the other's
interrogation and remarked:<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_218" id="Page_218">[218]</a></span></p>

<p>"My knowledge was rather the fruit of surmise than
fact. I did not believe in the guilt of Gouverneur Hildreth,
and so was forced to look about me for someone
whom I could conscientiously suspect. I fixed upon this
unhappy man in Buffalo; how truly, your own suspicions,
unfortunately, reveal."</p>

<p>"And I had to have my wits started by a horrid old
woman," murmured the evidently abashed Hickory.</p>

<p>"Horrid old woman!" repeated Mr. Byrd. "Not
Sally Perkins?"</p>

<p>"Yes. A sweet one, isn't she?"</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd shuddered.</p>

<p>"Tell me about it," said he, coming and sitting down
in the seat the other had previously indicated to him.</p>

<p>"I will, sir; I will: but first let's look at the weather.
Some folks would think it just as well for you to change
that toggery of yours. What do you say to going home
first, and talking afterward?"</p>

<p>"I suppose it would be wise," admitted Mr. Byrd,
looking down at his garments, whose decidedly damp
condition he had scarcely noticed in his excitement.
"And yet I hate to leave this spot till I learn how you
came to choose it as the scene of the tragi-comedy you
have enacted here to-day, and what position it is likely
to occupy in the testimony which you have collected
against this young man."</p>

<p>"Wait, then," said the bustling fellow, "till I build you
the least bit of a fire to warm you. It won't take but a<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_219" id="Page_219">[219]</a></span>
minute," he averred, piling together some old sticks that
cumbered the hearth, and straightway setting a match to
them. "See! isn't that pleasant? And now, just cast
your eye at this!" he continued, drawing a comfortable-looking
flask out of his pocket and handing it over to
the other with a dry laugh. "Isn't <i>this</i> pleasant?" And
he threw himself down on the floor and stretched out his
hands to the blaze, with a gusto which the dreary hour
he had undoubtedly passed made perfectly natural, if not
excusable.</p>

<p>"I thank you," said Mr. Byrd; "I didn't know I was
so chilled," and he, too, enjoyed the warmth. "And,
now," he pursued, after a moment, "go on; let us have
the thing out at once."</p>

<p>But the other was in no hurry. "Very good, sir," he
cried; "but, first, if you don't mind, suppose you tell me
what brought <i>you</i> to this hut to-day?"</p>

<p>"I was on the look-out for clues. In my study of the
situation, I decided that the murderer of Mrs. Clemmens
escaped, not from the front, but from the back, of the
house. Taking the path I imagined him to have trod, I
came upon this hut. It naturally attracted my attention,
and to-day I came back to examine it more closely in the
hope of picking up some signs of his having been here,
or at least of having passed through the glade on his
way to the deeper woods."</p>

<p>"And what, if you had succeeded in this, sir? What,
if some token of his presence had rewarded your search?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_220" id="Page_220">[220]</a></span></p>

<p>"I should have completed a chain of proof of which
only this one link is lacking. I could have shown how
Craik Mansell fled from this place on last Tuesday afternoon,
making his way through the woods to the highway,
and thence to the Quarry Station at Monteith, where he
took the train which carried him back to Buffalo."</p>

<p>"You could!&mdash;show me how?"</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd explained himself more definitely.</p>

<p>Hickory at once rose.</p>

<p>"I guess we can give you the link," he dryly remarked.
"At all events, suppose you just step here and tell me
what conclusion you draw from the appearance of this
pile of brush."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd advanced and looked at a small heap of
hemlock that lay in a compact mass in one corner.</p>

<p>"I have not disturbed it," pursued the other. "It is
just as it was when I found it."</p>

<p>"Looks like a pillow," declared Mr. Byrd. "Has
been used for such, I am sure; for see, the dust in this
portion of the floor lies lighter than elsewhere. You can
almost detect the outline of a man's recumbent form," he
went on, slowly, leaning down to examine the floor more
closely. "As for the boughs, they have been cut from
the tree with a knife, and&mdash;&mdash;" Lifting up a sprig, he
looked at it, then passed it over to Hickory, with a
meaning glance that directed attention to one or two
short hairs of a dark brown color, that were caught in
the rough bark. "He did not even throw his pocket-handkerchief<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_221" id="Page_221">[221]</a></span>
over the heap before lying down," he
observed.</p>

<p>Mr. Hickory smiled. "You're up in your business, I
see." And drawing his new colleague to the table, he
asked him what he saw there.</p>

<p>At first sight Mr. Byrd exclaimed: "Nothing," but in
another moment he picked up an <ins title="Transcriber's Note: original reads 'infinitesmal'">infinitesimal</ins> chip from
between the rough logs that formed the top of this somewhat
rustic piece of furniture, and turning it over in his
hand, pronounced it to be a piece of wood from a lead-pencil.</p>

<p>"Here are several of them," remarked Mr. Hickory,
"and what is more, it is easy to tell just the color
of the pencil from which they were cut. It was blue."</p>

<p>"That is so," assented Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>"Quarrymen, charcoal-burners, and the like are not
much in the habit of sharpening pencils," suggested
Hickory.</p>

<p>"Is the pencil now to be found in the pocket of Mr.
Mansell a blue one?"</p>

<p>"It is."</p>

<p>"Have you anything more to show me?" asked Mr.
Byrd.</p>

<p>"Only this," responded the other, taking out of his
pocket the torn-off corner of a newspaper. "I found
this blowing about under the bushes out there," said he.
"Look at it and tell me from what paper it was torn."</p>

<p>"I don't know," said Mr. Byrd; "none that I am
acquainted with."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_222" id="Page_222">[222]</a></span></p>

<p>"You don't read the Buffalo <i>Courier?</i>"</p>

<p>"Oh, is this&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>"A corner from the Buffalo <i>Courier?</i> I don't know,
but I mean to find out. If it is, and the date proves to
be correct, we won't have much trouble about the little
link, will we?"</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd shook his head and they again crouched
down over the fire.</p>

<p>"And, now, what did you learn in Buffalo?" inquired
the persistent Hickory.</p>

<p>"Not much," acknowledged Mr. Byrd. "The man
Brown was entirely too ubiquitous to give me my full
chance. Neither at the house nor at the mill was I able
to glean anything beyond an admission from the landlady
that Mr. Mansell was not at home at the time of his
aunt's murder. I couldn't even learn where he was on
that day, or where he had ostensibly gone? If it had
not been for the little girl of Mr. Goodman&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>"Ah, I had not time to go to that house," interjected
the other, suggestively.</p>

<p>"I should have come home as wise as I went," continued
Mr. Byrd. "She told me that on the day before
Mr. Mansell returned, he wrote to her father from Monteith,
and <i>that</i> settled my mind in regard to him. It was
pure luck, however."</p>

<p>The other laughed long and loud.</p>

<p>"I didn't know I did it up so well," he cried. "I
told the landlady you were a detective, or acted like one,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_223" id="Page_223">[223]</a></span>
and she was very ready to take the alarm, having, as I
judge, a motherly liking for her young boarder. Then I
took Messrs. Chamberlin and Harrison into my confidence,
and having got from them all the information
they could give me, told them there was evidently
another man on the track of this Mansell, and warned
them to keep silence till they heard from the prosecuting
attorney in Sibley. But I didn't know who you were, or,
at least, I wasn't sure; or, as I said before, I shouldn't
have presumed."</p>

<p>The short, dry laugh with which he ended this explanation
had not ceased, when Mr. Byrd observed:</p>

<p>"You have not told me what <i>you</i> gathered in Buffalo."</p>

<p>"Much," quoth Hickory, reverting to his favorite
laconic mode of speech. "First, that Mansell went
from home on Monday, the day before the murder, for
the purpose, as he said, of seeing a man in New York
about his wonderful invention. Secondly, that he never
went to New York, but came back the next evening,
bringing his model with him, and looking terribly used
up and worried. Thirdly, that to get this invention
before the public had been his pet aim and effort for a
whole year. That he believed in it as you do in your
Bible, and would have given his heart's blood, if it would
have done any good, to start the thing, and prove himself
right in his estimate of its value. That the money to
do this was all that was lacking, no one believing in him
sufficiently to advance him the five thousand dollars considered<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_224" id="Page_224">[224]</a></span>
necessary to build the machine and get it in working
order. That, in short, he was a fanatic on the subject,
and often said he would be willing to die within the
year if he could first prove to the unbelieving capitalists
whom he had vainly importuned for assistance, the worth
of the discovery he believed himself to have made.
Fourthly&mdash;but what is it you wish to say, sir?"</p>

<p>"Five thousand dollars is just the amount Widow Clemmens
is supposed to leave him," remarked Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>"Precisely," was the short reply.</p>

<p>"And fourthly?" suggested the former.</p>

<p>"Fourthly, he was in the mill on Wednesday morning,
where he went about his work as usual, until someone
who knew his relation to Mrs. Clemmens looked up from the
paper he was reading, and, in pure thoughtlessness, cried,
'So they have killed your aunt for you, have they?' A
barbarous jest, that caused everybody near him to start in
indignation, but which made him recoil as if one of these
thunderbolts we have been listening to this afternoon had
fallen at his feet. And he didn't get over it," Hickory
went on. "He had to beg permission to go home. He
said the terrible news had made him ill, and indeed he
looked sick enough, and continued to look sick enough
for days. He had letters from Sibley, and an invitation
to attend the inquest and be present at the funeral
services, but he refused to go. He was threatened with
diphtheria, he declared, and remained away from the mill
until the day before yesterday. Someone, I don't<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_225" id="Page_225">[225]</a></span>
remember who, says he went out of town the very Wednesday
he first heard the news; but if so, he could
not have been gone long, for he was at home Wednesday
night, sick in bed, and threatened, as I have said, with
the diphtheria. Fifthly&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>"Well, fifthly?"</p>

<p>"I am afraid of your criticisms," laughed the rough
detective. "Fifthly is the result of my poking about
among Mr. Mansell's traps."</p>

<p>"Ah!" frowned the other, with a vivid remembrance
of that picture of Miss Dare, with its beauty blotted out
by the ominous black lines.</p>

<p>"You are too squeamish for a detective," the other
declared. "Guess you're kept for the fancy business,
eh?"</p>

<p>The look Mr. Byrd gave him was eloquent. "Go on,"
said he; "let us hear what lies behind your fifthly."</p>

<p>"Love," returned the man. "Locked in the drawer of
this young gentleman's table, I found some half-dozen
letters tied with a black ribbon. I knew they were
written by a lady, but squeamishness is not a fault
of mine, and so I just allowed myself to glance over them.
They were from Miss Dare, of course, and they revealed
the fact that love, as well as ambition, had been a motive
power in determining this Mansell to make a success
out of his invention."</p>

<p>Leaning back, the now self-satisfied detective looked
at Mr. Byrd.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_226" id="Page_226">[226]</a></span></p>

<p>"The name of Miss Dare," he went on, "brings me to
the point from which we started. I haven't yet told
you what old Sally Perkins had to say to me."</p>

<p>"No," rejoined Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>"Well," continued the other, poking with his foot the
dying embers of the fire, till it started up into a fresh
blaze, "the case against this young fellow wouldn't be
worth very much without that old crone's testimony,
I reckon; but with it I guess we can get along."</p>

<p>"Let us hear," said Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>"The old woman is a wretch," Hickory suddenly
broke out. "She seems to gloat over the fact that
a young and beautiful woman is in trouble. She actually
trembled with eagerness as she told her story. If I
hadn't been rather anxious myself to hear what she had
to say, I could have thrown her out of the window.
As it was, I let her go on; duty before pleasure, you see&mdash;duty
before pleasure."</p>

<p>"But her story," persisted Mr. Byrd, letting some
of his secret irritation betray itself.</p>

<p>"Well, her story was this: Monday afternoon, the day
before the murder, you know, she was up in these very
woods hunting for witch-hazel. She had got her arms
full and was going home across the bog when she suddenly
heard voices. Being of a curious disposition, like myself,
I suppose, she stopped, and seeing just before her
a young gentleman and lady sitting on an old stump,
crouched down in the shadow of a tree, with the harmless<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_227" id="Page_227">[227]</a></span>
intent, no doubt, of amusing herself with their conversation.
It was more interesting than she expected,
and she really became quite tragic as she related her
story to me. I cannot do justice to it myself, and I
sha'n't try. It is enough that the man whom she did
not know, and the woman whom she immediately recognized
as Miss Dare, were both in a state of great indignation.
That he spoke of selfishness and <ins title="Transcriber's Note: original reads 'obstancy'">obstinacy</ins> on
the part of his aunt, and that she, in the place of rebuking
him, replied in a way to increase his bitterness, and lead
him finally to exclaim: 'I cannot bear it! To think that
with just the advance of the very sum she proposes to
give me some day, I could make her fortune and my own,
and win <i>you</i> all in one breath! It is enough to drive a
man mad to see all that he craves in this world so near
his grasp, and yet have nothing, not even hope, to comfort
him.' And at that, it seems, they both rose, and she,
who had not answered anything to this, struck the tree
before which they stood, with her bare fist, and murmured
a word or so which the old woman couldn't catch, but
which was evidently something to the effect that she
wished she knew Mrs. Clemmens; for Mansell&mdash;of
course it was he&mdash;said, in almost the same breath, 'And
if you did know her, what then?' A question which
elicited no reply at first, but which finally led her to say:
'Oh! I think that, possibly, I might be able to persuade
her.' All this," the detective went on, "old Sally related
with the greatest force; but in regard to what followed,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_228" id="Page_228">[228]</a></span>
she was not so clear. Probably they interrupted
their conversation with some lovers' by-play, for they
stood very near together, and he seemed to be earnestly
pleading with her. 'Do take it,' old Sally heard him
say. 'I shall feel as if life held some outlook for
me, if you only will gratify me in this respect.' But
she answered: 'No; it is of no use. I am as
ambitious as you are, and fate is evidently against
us,' and put his hand back when he endeavored to take
hers, but finally yielded so far as to give it to him for a
moment, though she immediately snatched it away again,
crying: 'I cannot; you must wait till to-morrow.' And
when he asked: 'Why to-morrow?' she answered: 'A
night has been known to change the whole current of a
person's affairs.' To which he replied: 'True,' and
looked thoughtful, very thoughtful, as he met her eyes
and saw her raise that white hand of hers and strike the
tree again with a passionate force that made her fingers
bleed. And she was right," concluded the speaker.
"The night, or if not the night, the next twenty-four
hours, <i>did</i> make a change, as even old Sally Perkins
observed. Widow Clemmens was struck down and Craik
Mansell became the possessor of the five thousand dollars
he so much wanted in order to win for himself a fortune
and a bride."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd, who had been sitting with his face turned
aside during this long recital, slowly rose to his feet.
"Hickory," said he, and his tone had an edge of suppressed<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_229" id="Page_229">[229]</a></span>
feeling in it that made the other start, "don't
let me ever hear you say, in my presence, that you think
this young and beautiful woman was the one to suggest
murder to this man, for I won't hear it. And now," he
continued, more calmly, "tell me why this babbling old
wretch did not enliven the inquest with her wonderful
tale. It would have been a fine offset to the testimony
of Miss Firman."</p>

<p>"She said she wasn't fond of coroners and had no
wish to draw the attention of twelve of her own townsfolk
upon herself. She didn't mean to commit herself with
me," pursued Hickory, rising also. "She was going to
give me a hint of the real state of affairs; or, rather, set
me working in the right direction, as this little note which
she tucked under the door of my room at the hotel will
show. But I was too quick for her, and had her by the
arm before she could shuffle down the stairs. It was
partly to prove her story was true and not a romance
made up for the occasion, that I lured this woman here
this afternoon."</p>

<p>"You are not as bad a fellow as I thought," Mr. Byrd
admitted, after a momentary contemplation of the
other's face. "If I might only know how you managed
to effect this interview."</p>

<p>"Nothing easier. I found in looking over the scraps
of paper which Mansell had thrown into the waste-paper
basket in Buffalo, the draft of a note which he had written
to Miss Dare, under an impulse which he afterward<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_230" id="Page_230">[230]</a></span>
probably regretted. It was a summons to their usual
place of tryst at or near this hut, and though unsigned,
was of a character, as I thought, to effect its purpose. I
just sent it to her, that's all."</p>

<p>The nonchalance with which this was said completed
Mr. Byrd's astonishment.</p>

<p>"You are a worthy disciple of Gryce," he asserted, leading
the way to the door.</p>

<p>"Think so?" exclaimed the man, evidently flattered
at what he considered a great compliment. "Then shake
hands," he cried, with a frank appeal Mr. Byrd found it
hard to resist. "Ah, you don't want to," he somewhat
ruefully declared. "Will it change your feelings any if I
promise to ignore what happened here to-day&mdash;my trick
with Miss Dare and what she revealed and all that? If
it will, I swear I won't even think of it any more if I can
help it. At all events, I won't tattle about it even to the
superintendent. It shall be a secret between you and me,
and she won't know but what it was her lover she talked
to, after all."</p>

<p>"You are willing to do all this?" inquired Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>"Willing and ready," cried the man. "I believe in
duty to one's superiors, but duty doesn't always demand
of one to tell everything he knows. Besides, it won't be
necessary, I imagine. There is enough against this poor
fellow without that."</p>

<p>"I fear so," ejaculated Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>"Then it is a bargain?" said Hickory.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_231" id="Page_231">[231]</a></span></p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>And Mr. Byrd held out his hand.</p>

<p>The rain had now ceased and they prepared to return
home. Before leaving the glade, however, Mr. Byrd ran
his eye over the other's person and apparel, and in some
wonder inquired:</p>

<p>"How do you fellows ever manage to get up such complete
disguises? I declare you look enough like Mr.
Mansell in the back to make me doubt even now who I
am talking to."</p>

<p>"Oh," laughed the other, "it is easy enough. It's my
specialty, you see, and one in which I <i>am</i> thought to
excel. But, to tell the truth, I hadn't much to contend
with in this case. In build I am famously like this man,
as you must have noticed when you saw us together in
Buffalo. Indeed, it was our similarity in this respect that
first put the idea of personifying him into my head. My
complexion had been darkened already, and, as for such
accessories as hair, voice, manner, dress, etc., a five-minutes'
study of my model was sufficient to prime me up in
all that&mdash;enough, at least, to satisfy the conditions of an
interview which did not require me to show my face."</p>

<p>"But you did not know when you came here that you
would not have to show your face," persisted Mr. Byrd,
anxious to understand how this man dared risk his reputation
on an undertaking of this kind.</p>

<p>"No, and I did not know that the biggest thunderstorm
of the season was going to spring up and lend me its darkness<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_232" id="Page_232">[232]</a></span>
to complete the illusion I had attempted. I only
trusted my good fortune&mdash;and my wits," he added, with a
droll demureness. "Both had served me before, and
both were likely to serve me again. And, say she had
detected me in my little game, what then? Women like
her don't babble."</p>

<p>There was no reply to make to this, and Mr. Byrd's
thoughts being thus carried back to Imogene Dare and the
unhappy revelations she had been led to make, he walked
on in a dreary silence his companion had sufficient discretion
not to break.</p>

</body>