<body>
<p>THE sleep of Horace Byrd that night was anything
but refreshing. In the first place, he was
troubled about this fellow Brown, whose last impertinence
showed he was a man to be watched, and, if
possible, understood. Secondly, he was haunted by a
vision of the unhappy youth he had just left; seeing,
again and again, both in his dreams and in the rush of
heated fancies which followed his awaking, that picture
of utter despair which the opening of his neighbor's door
had revealed. He could not think of that poor mortal
as sleeping. Whether it was the result of his own sympathetic
admiration for Miss Dare, or of some subtle clairvoyance
bestowed upon him by the darkness and stillness
of the hour, he felt assured that the quiet watch he
had interrupted by his careless importunity, had been
again established, and that if he could tear down the
partition separating their two rooms, he should see that
bowed form and buried face crouched despairingly above
the disfigured picture. The depths of human misery and
the maddening passions that underlie all crime had been<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_190" id="Page_190">[190]</a></span>
revealed to him for the first time, perhaps, in all their
terrible suggestiveness, and he asked himself over and
over as he tossed on his uneasy pillow, if he possessed
the needful determination to carry on the scheme he had
undertaken, in face of the unreasoning sympathies which
the fathomless misery of this young man had aroused.
Under the softening influences of the night, he answered,
No; but when the sunlight came and the full flush of
life with its restless duties and common necessities awoke
within him, he decided, Yes.</p>

<p>Mr. Mansell was not at the breakfast-table when Mr.
Byrd came down. His duties at the mill were peremptory,
and he had already taken his coffee and gone. But
Mr. Brown was there, and at sight of him Mr. Byrd's
caution took alarm, and he bestowed upon this intrusive
busybody a close and searching scrutiny. It, however,
elicited nothing in the way of his own enlightenment beyond
the fact that this fellow, total stranger though he
seemed, was for some inexplicable reason an enemy to
himself or his plans.</p>

<p>Not that Mr. Brown manifested this by any offensive
token of dislike or even of mistrust. On the contrary,
he was excessively polite, and let slip no opportunity of
dragging Mr. Byrd into the conversation. Yet, for all
that, a secret influence was already at work against the
detective, and he could not attribute it to any other
source than the jealous efforts of this man. Miss Hart
was actually curt to him, and in the attitude of the<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_191" id="Page_191">[191]</a></span>
various persons about the board he detected a certain reserve
which had been entirely absent from their manner
the evening before.</p>

<p>But while placing, as he thought, due weight upon this
fellow's animosity, he had no idea to what it would lead,
till he went up-stairs. Mrs. Hart, who had hitherto
treated him with the utmost cordiality, now called him
into the parlor, and told him frankly that she would be
obliged to him if he would let her have his room. To be
sure, she qualified the seeming harshness of her request
by an intimation that a permanent occupant had applied
for it, and offered to pay his board at the hotel till
he could find a room to suit him in another house; but
the fact remained that she was really in a flutter to rid
herself of him, and no subterfuge could hide it, and Mr.
Byrd, to whose plans the full confidence of those around
him was essential, found himself obliged to acquiesce in
her desires, and announce at once his willingness to depart.</p>

<p>Instantly she was all smiles, and overwhelmed him with
overtures of assistance; but he courteously declined her
help, and, flying from her apologies with what speed he
could, went immediately to his room. Here he sat down
to deliberate.</p>

<p>The facts he had gleaned, despite the interference of
his unknown enemy, were three:</p>

<p>First, that Craik Mansell had found excuses for not attending
the inquest, or even the funeral, of his murdered
aunt.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_192" id="Page_192">[192]</a></span></p>

<p>Secondly, that he had a strong passion for invention,
and had even now the model of a machine on hand.</p>

<p>And third, that he was not at home, wherever else
he may have been, on the morning of the murder in
Sibley.</p>

<p>"A poor and meagre collection of insignificant facts,"
thought Mr. Byrd. "Too poor and meagre to avail
much in stemming the tide threatening to overwhelm
Gouverneur Hildreth."</p>

<p>But what opportunity remained for making them
weightier? He was turned from the house that held the
few persons from whom he could hope to glean more
complete and satisfactory information, and he did
not know where else to seek it unless he went to the
mill. And this was an alternative from which he shrank,
as it would, in the first place, necessitate a revelation of his
real character; and, secondly, make known the fact that
Mr. Mansell was under the surveillance of the police, if
not in the actual attitude of a suspected man.</p>

<p>A quick and hearty, "Shure, you are very good,
sir!" uttered in the hall without roused him from his
meditations and turned his thoughts in a new direction.
What if he could learn something from the servants? He
had not thought of them. This girl, now, whose work
constantly carried her into the various rooms on this
floor, would, of course, know whether Mr. Mansell had
been away on the day of the murder, even if she
could not tell the precise time of his return. At all<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_193" id="Page_193">[193]</a></span>
events, it was worth while to test her with a question
or two before he left, even if he had to resort to the
means of spurring her memory with money. His failure
in other directions did not necessitate a failure here.</p>

<p>He accordingly called her in, and showing her a
bright silver dollar, asked her if she thought it good
enough pay for a short answer to a simple question.</p>

<p>To his great surprise she blushed and drew back, shaking
her head and muttering that her mistress didn't like
to have the girls talk to the young men about the house,
and finally going off with a determined toss of her frowsy
head, that struck Mr. Byrd aghast, and made him believe
more than ever that his evil star hung in the ascendant,
and that the sooner he quit the house the better.</p>

<p>In ten minutes he was in the street.</p>

<p>But one thing now remained for him to do. He must
make the acquaintance of one of the mill-owners, or
possibly of an overseer or accountant, and from him learn
where Mr. Mansell had been at the time of his aunt's
murder. To this duty he devoted the day; but here
also he was met by unexpected difficulties. Though he
took pains to disguise himself before proceeding to the
mill, all the endeavors which he made to obtain an interview
there with any responsible person were utterly fruitless.
Whether his ill-luck at the house had followed him
to this place he could not tell, but, for some reason or
other, there was not one of the gentlemen for whom he
inquired but had some excuse for not seeing him; and,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_194" id="Page_194">[194]</a></span>
worn out at last with repeated disappointments, if not
oppressed by the doubtful looks he received from the
various subordinates who carried his messages, he left the
building, and proceeded to make use of the only means
now left him of compassing his end.</p>

<p>This was to visit Mr. Goodman, the one member of the
firm who was not at his post that day, and see if from
him he could gather the single fact he was in search of.</p>

<p>"Perhaps the atmosphere of distrust with which I am
surrounded in this quarter has not reached this gentleman's
house," thought he. And having learned from the
directory where that house was, he proceeded immediately
to it.</p>

<p>His reception was by no means cordial. Mr. Goodman
had been ill the night before, and was in no mood
to see strangers.</p>

<p>"Mansell?" he coolly repeated, in acknowledgment
of the other's inquiry as to whether he had a person of
that name in his employ. "Yes, our book-keeper's
name is Mansell. May I ask"&mdash;and here Mr. Byrd felt
himself subjected to a thorough, if not severe, scrutiny&mdash;"why
you come to me with inquiries concerning him?"</p>

<p>"Because," the determined detective responded, adopting
at once the bold course, "you can put me in possession
of a fact which it eminently befits the cause of
justice to know. I am an emissary, sir, from the District
Attorney at Sibley, and the point I want settled is,
where Mr. Mansell was on the morning of the twenty-sixth
of September?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_195" id="Page_195">[195]</a></span></p>

<p>This was business, and the look that involuntarily
leaped into Mr. Goodman's eye proved that he considered
it so. He did not otherwise betray this feeling, however,
but turned quite calmly toward a chair, into which he
slowly settled himself before replying:</p>

<p>"And why do you not ask the gentleman himself where
he was? He probably would be quite ready to tell you."</p>

<p>The inflection he gave to these words warned Mr.
Byrd to be careful. The truth was, Mr. Goodman was
Mr. Mansell's best friend, and as such had his own
reasons for not being especially communicative in his
regard, to this stranger. The detective vaguely felt this,
and immediately changed his manner.</p>

<p>"I have no doubt of that, sir," he ingenuously answered.
"But Mr. Mansell has had so much to distress him lately,
that I was desirous of saving him from the unpleasantness
which such a question would necessarily cause. It
is only a small matter, sir. A person&mdash;it is not essential
to state whom&mdash;has presumed to raise the question
among the authorities in Sibley as to whether Mr. Mansell,
as heir of poor Mrs. Clemmens' small property,
might not have had some hand in her dreadful death.
There was no proof to sustain the assumption, and Mr.
Mansell was not even known to have been in the town on
or after the day of her murder; but justice, having
listened to the aspersion, felt bound to satisfy itself of its
falsity; and I was sent here to learn where Mr. Mansell
was upon that fatal day. I find he was not in Buffalo.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_196" id="Page_196">[196]</a></span>
But this does not mean he was in Sibley, and I am sure
that, if you will, you can supply me with facts that will
lead to a complete and satisfactory <i>alibi</i> for him."</p>

<p>But the hard caution of the other was not to be moved.</p>

<p>"I am sorry," said he, "but I can give you no information
in regard to Mr. Mansell's travels. You will have
to ask the gentleman himself."</p>

<p>"You did not send him out on business of your own,
then?"</p>

<p>"No."</p>

<p>"But you knew he was going?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"And can tell when he came back?"</p>

<p>"He was in his place on Wednesday."</p>

<p>The cold, dry nature of these replies convinced Mr.
Byrd that something more than the sullen obstinacy of
an uncommunicative man lay behind this determined
reticence. Looking at Mr. Goodman inquiringly, he
calmly remarked:</p>

<p>"You are a friend of Mr. Mansell?"</p>

<p>The answer came quick and coldly:</p>

<p>"He is a constant visitor at my house."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd made a respectful bow.</p>

<p>"You can, then, have no doubts of his ability to prove
an <i>alibi?</i>"</p>

<p>"I have no doubts concerning Mr. Mansell," was the
stern and uncompromising reply.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd at once felt he had received his dismissal.
But before making up his mind to go, he resolved upon<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_197" id="Page_197">[197]</a></span>
one further effort. Calling to his aid his full power of
acting, he slowly shook his head with a thoughtful air,
and presently murmured half aloud and half, as it were,
to himself:</p>

<p>"I thought, possibly, he might have gone to Washington."
Then, with a casual glance at Mr. Goodman,
added: "He is an inventor, I believe?"</p>

<p>"Yes," was again the laconic response.</p>

<p>"Has he not a machine at present which he desires to
bring to the notice of some capitalist?"</p>

<p>"I believe he has," was the forced and none too amiable
answer.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd at once leaned confidingly forward.</p>

<p>"Don't you think," he asked, "that he may have gone
to New York to consult with someone about this pet
hobby of his? It would certainly be a natural thing for
him to do, and if I only knew it was so, I could go back
to Sibley with an easy conscience."</p>

<p>His disinterested air, and the tone of kindly concern
which he had adopted, seemed at last to produce its effect
on his companion. Relaxing a trifle of his austerity, Mr.
Goodman went so far as to admit that Mr. Mansell had
told him that business connected with his patent had
called him out of town; but beyond this he would allow
nothing; and Mr. Byrd, baffled in his attempts to elicit
from this man any distinct acknowledgment of Mr. Mansell's
whereabouts at the critical time of Mrs. Clemmens'
death, made a final bow and turned toward the door.</p>

<p>It was only at this moment he discovered that Mr.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_198" id="Page_198">[198]</a></span>
Goodman and himself had not been alone in the room;
that curled up in one of the window-seats was a little girl
of some ten or twelve years of age, who at the first tokens
of his taking his departure slipped shyly down to the
floor and ran before him out into the hall. He found
her by the front door when he arrived there. She was
standing with her hand on the knob, and presented such
a picture of childish eagerness, tempered by childish timidity,
that he involuntarily paused before her with a
smile. She needed no further encouragement.</p>

<p>"Oh, sir, I know about Mr. Mansell!" she cried. "He
wasn't in that place you talk about, for he wrote a letter
to papa just the day before he came back, and the postmark
on the envelope was Monteith. I remember, because
it was the name of the man who made our big
map." And, looking up with that eager zeal which marks
the liking of very little folks for some one favorite person
among their grown acquaintances, she added, earnestly:
"I do hope you won't let them say anything bad about
Mr. Mansell, he is so good."</p>

<p>And without waiting for a reply, she ran off, her curls
dancing, her eyes sparkling, all her little innocent form
alive with the joy of having done a kindness, as she
thought, for her favorite, Mr. Mansell.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd, on the contrary, felt a strange pang that the
information he had sought for so long and vainly should
come at last from the lips of an innocent child.</p>

<p>Monteith, as you remember, was the next station to
Sibley.</p>

</body>