<body>
<p>SIBLEY was in a stir. Sibley was the central point
of interest for the whole country. The great trial
was in progress and the curiosity of the populace knew
no bounds.</p>

<p>In a room of the hotel sat our two detectives. They
had just come from the court-house. Both seemed inclined
to talk, though both showed an indisposition to
open the conversation. A hesitation lay between them;
a certain thin vail of embarrassment that either one would
have found it hard to explain, and yet which sufficed to
make their intercourse a trifle uncertain in its character,
though Hickory's look had lost none of its rude good-humor,
and Byrd's manner was the same mixture of easy
nonchalance and quiet self-possession it had always been.</p>

<p>It was Hickory who spoke at last.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_316" id="Page_316">[316]</a></span></p>

<p>"Well, Byrd?" was his suggestive exclamation.</p>

<p>"Well, Hickory?" was the quiet reply.</p>

<p>"What do you think of the case so far?"</p>

<p>"I think"&mdash;the words came somewhat slowly&mdash;"I
think that it looks bad. Bad for the prisoner, I mean,"
he explained the next moment with a quick flush.</p>

<p>"Your sympathies are evidently with Mansell,"
Hickory quietly remarked.</p>

<p>"Yes," was the slow reply. "Not that I think him innocent,
or would turn a hair's breadth from the truth to
serve him."</p>

<p>"He <i>is</i> a manly fellow," Hickory bluntly admitted,
after a moment's puff at the pipe he was smoking.
"Do you remember the peculiar straightforwardness of
his look when he uttered his plea of 'Not guilty,' and the
tone he used too, so quiet, yet so emphatic? You could
have heard a pin drop."</p>

<p>"Yes," returned Mr. Byrd, with a quick contraction of
his usually smooth brow.</p>

<p>"Have you noticed," the other broke forth, after
another puff, "a certain curious air of disdain that he
wears?"</p>

<p>"Yes," was again the short reply.</p>

<p>"I wonder what it means?" queried Hickory carelessly,
knocking the ashes out of his pipe.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd flashed a quick askance look at his colleague
from under his half-fallen lids, but made no
answer.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_317" id="Page_317">[317]</a></span></p>

<p>"It is not pride alone," resumed the rough-and-ready
detective, half-musingly; "though he's as proud as the
best of 'em. Neither is it any sort of make-believe, or <i>I</i>
wouldn't be caught by it. 'Tis&mdash;'tis&mdash;what?" And
Hickory rubbed his nose with his thoughtful forefinger,
and looked inquiringly at Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>"How should I know?" remarked the other, tossing
his stump of a cigar into the fire. "Mr. Mansell is too
deep a problem for me."</p>

<p>"And Miss Dare too?"</p>

<p>"<i>And</i> Miss Dare."</p>

<p>Silence followed this admission, which Hickory broke
at last by observing:</p>

<p>"The day that sees <i>her</i> on the witness stand will be interesting,
eh?"</p>

<p>"It is not far off," declared Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>"No?"</p>

<p>"I think she will be called as a witness to-morrow."</p>

<p>"Have you noticed," began Hickory again, after another
short interval of quiet contemplation, "that it is
only when Miss Dare is present that Mansell wears the
look of scorn I have just mentioned."</p>

<p>"Hickory," said Mr. Byrd, wheeling directly about in
his chair and for the first time surveying his colleague
squarely, "I have noticed <i>this</i>. That ever since the day
she made her first appearance in the court-room, she has
sat with her eyes fixed earnestly upon the prisoner, and
that he has never answered her look by so much as a<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_318" id="Page_318">[318]</a></span>
glance in her direction. This has but one explanation as
I take it. He never forgets that it is through her he has
been brought to trial for his life."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd uttered this very distinctly, and with a decided
emphasis. But the impervious Hickory only settled himself
farther back in his chair, and stretching his feet out
toward the fire, remarked dryly:</p>

<p>"Perhaps I am not much of a judge of human nature,
but I should have said now that this Mansell was not
a man to treat her contemptuously for that. Rage he
might show or hatred, but this quiet ignoring of her
presence seems a little too dignified for a criminal facing
a person he has every reason to believe is convinced
of his guilt."</p>

<p>"Ordinary rules don't apply to this man. Neither you
nor I can sound his nature. If he displays contempt, it
is because he is of the sort to feel it for the woman who
has betrayed him."</p>

<p>"You make him out mean-spirited, then, as well
as wicked?"</p>

<p>"I make him out human. More than that," Mr. Byrd
resumed, after a moment's thought, "I make him out consistent.
A man who lets his passions sway him to the extent
of committing a murder for the purpose of satisfying
his love or his ambition, is not of the unselfish cast that
would appreciate such a sacrifice as Miss Dare has made.
This under the supposition that our reasons for believing
him guilty are well founded. If our suppositions are<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_319" id="Page_319">[319]</a></span>
false, and the crime was not committed by him, his contempt
needs no explanation."</p>

<p>"Just so!"</p>

<p>The peculiar tone in which this was uttered caused Mr.
Byrd to flash another quick look at his colleague.
Hickory did not seem to observe it.</p>

<p>"What makes you think Miss Dare will be called
to the witness stand to-morrow?" he asked.</p>

<p>"Well I will tell you," returned Byrd, with the sudden
vivacity of one glad to turn the current of conversation
into a fresh channel. "If you have followed the method
of the prosecution as I have done, you will have noticed
that it has advanced to its point by definite stages.
First, witnesses were produced to prove the existence of
motive on the part of the accused. Mr. Goodman
was called to the witness stand, and, after him, other
business men of Buffalo, all of whom united in unqualified
assertions of the prisoner's frequently-expressed desire for
a sum of money sufficient to put his invention into
practical use. Next, the amount considered necessary
for this purpose was ascertained and found to be just
covered by the legacy bequeathed him by his aunt; after
which, ample evidence was produced to show that he
knew the extent of her small fortune, and the fact
that she had by her will made him her heir. Motive for
the crime being thus established, they now proceeded to
prove that he was not without actual opportunity for perpetrating
it. He was shown to have been in Sibley at the<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_320" id="Page_320">[320]</a></span>
time of the murder. The station-master at Monteith was
confronted with the prisoner, also old Sally Perkins.
Then you and I came before the court with our testimony,
and whatever doubt may have remained as to his
having been in a position to effect his aunt's death,
and afterward escape unnoticed by means of the path
leading over the hills to Monteith Quarry station, was
swept away. What remains? To connect him with the
murder itself, by some, strong link of circumstantial evidence,
such as the ring provides. And who is it that
can give testimony regarding the ring?&mdash;Miss Dare."</p>

<p>"Hem! Well, she will do it," was the dry remark of
Hickory.</p>

<p>"She will be obliged to do it," was the emphatic response
of Byrd.</p>

<p>And again their glances crossed in a furtive way both
seemed ready to ignore.</p>

<p>"What do you think of Orcutt?" Hickory next inquired.</p>

<p>"He is very quiet."</p>

<p>"Too quiet, eh?"</p>

<p>"Perhaps. Folks that know him well declare they
never before saw him conduct a case in so temperate a
manner. He has scarcely made an effort at cross-examination,
and, in fact, has thus far won nothing for the
defence except that astonishing tribute to the prisoner's
character given by Mr. Goodman."</p>

<p>"Mr. Goodman is Mansell's friend."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_321" id="Page_321">[321]</a></span></p>

<p>"I know it; but his short, decisive statements told
upon the jury. Such a man as he made Mansell out to
be is just the sort to create an impression on a body of
men like them."</p>

<p>"Orcutt understands a jury."</p>

<p>"Orcutt understands his case. He knows he can
make nothing by attempting to shake the evidence which
has been presented by the prosecution; the facts are too
clear, and the witnesses which have been called to testify
are of too reliable a character. Whatever defence he
contemplates, it will not rest upon a denial of any of the
facts brought to light through our efforts, or the evidence
of such persons as Messrs. Goodman and Harrison."</p>

<p>"No."</p>

<p>"The question is, then, in what will it lie? Some
strong point, I warrant you, or he would not hold himself
and his plans so completely in reserve. But what strong
point? I acknowledge the uncertainty troubles me."</p>

<p>"I don't wonder," rejoined Hickory. "So it does
me."</p>

<p>And a constraint again fell between them that lasted
till Hickory put his pipe in his pocket and signified his
intention of returning to his own apartments.</p>

</body>