<body>
<p>MR. BYRD, upon waking next morning, found
himself disturbed by a great perplexity. Were
the words then ringing in his ears, real words, which he
had overheard spoken outside of his door some time during
the past night, or were they merely the empty utterances
of a more than usually vivid dream?</p>

<p>He could not tell. He could remember the very tone
of voice in which he fancied them to have been spoken&mdash;a
tone which he had no difficulty in recognizing as that
of the landlord of the hotel; could even recall the faint
sounds of bustle which accompanied them, as though the
person using them had been showing another person
through the hall; but beyond that, all was indistinct and
dream-like.</p>

<p>The words were these:</p>

<p>"Glad to see you back, sir. This murder following so
close upon your visit must have been a great surprise. A
sad occurrence, that, sir, and a very mysterious one.
Hope you have some information to give."</p>

<p>"If it is a remembrance and such words were uttered<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_96" id="Page_96">[96]</a></span>
outside of my door last night," argued the young detective
to himself, "the guest who called them forth can be
no other than the tall and florid gentleman whom I encountered
in the bar-room. But is it a remembrance, or
only a chimera of my own overwrought brain struggling
with a subject it will not let drop? As Shakespeare
says, 'That is the question!'"</p>

<p>Fortunately, it was not one which it behooved him to
decide. So, for the twentieth time, he put the subject by
and resolved to think of it no more.</p>

<p>But perplexities of this kind are not so easily dismissed,
and more than once during his hurried and solitary breakfast,
did he ask himself whether, in case the words were
real, he had not found in the landlord of this very hotel
the one witness for which the coroner was so diligently
seeking.</p>

<p>A surprise awaited him after breakfast, in the sudden
appearance at his room door of the very gentleman last
alluded to.</p>

<p>"Ha, Byrd," said he, with cheerful vivacity: "here is a
line from the superintendent which may prove interesting
to you."</p>

<p>And with a complacent smile, Dr. Tredwell handed
over a letter which had been brought to him by the
detective who had that morning arrived from New York.</p>

<p>With a dim sense of foreboding which he would have
found difficult to explain, Mr. Byrd opened the note
and read the following words:<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_97" id="Page_97">[97]</a></span></p>

<div class="blockquot"><p><span class="smcap">Dear Sir</span>,&mdash;I send with this a man fully competent to conduct a
case of any ordinary difficulty. I acknowledge it is for our interest
that you employ him to the exclusion of the person mentioned in your
letter. But if you or that person think that he can render you any
real assistance by his interference, he is at liberty to act in his
capacity of detective in as far as he can do so without divulging too
widely the secret of his connection with the force.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&mdash;&mdash;&nbsp;&mdash;&mdash;.</p></div>

<p>"The superintendent need not be concerned," said Mr.
Byrd, returning the note with a constrained bow. "I
shall not interfere in this matter."</p>

<p>"You will miss a good thing, then," remarked the
coroner, shortly, looking keenly at the young man.</p>

<p>"I cannot help it," observed the other, with a quick
sigh of impatience or regret. "I should have to see my
duty very clearly and possess the very strongest reasons
for interfering before I presumed to offer either advice or
assistance after a letter of this kind."</p>

<p>"And who knows but what such reasons may yet present
themselves?" ventured the coroner. Then seeing
the young man shake his head, made haste to add in the
business-like tone of one preparing to take his leave,
"At all events the matter stands open for the present;
and if during the course of to-day's inquiry you see fit
to change your mind, it will be easy enough for you to
notify me." And without waiting for any further remonstrance,
he gave a quick nod and passed hastily out.</p>

<p>The state of mind in which he left Mr. Byrd was anything but enviable. Not that the young man's former
determination to let this matter alone had been in any<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_98" id="Page_98">[98]</a></span>
wise shaken by the unexpected concession on the part of
the superintendent, but that the final hint concerning the
inquest had aroused his old interest to quite a formidable
degree, and, what was worse, had reawakened certain
feelings which since last night it had been his most
earnest endeavor to subdue. He felt like a man pursued
by an implacable fate, and dimly wondered whether he
would be allowed to escape before it was too late to save
himself from lasting uneasiness, if not lifelong regret.</p>

<p>A final stroke of business for Mr. Ferris kept him at
the court-house most of the morning; but his duty in
that direction being at an end, he no longer found any
excuse for neglecting the task imposed upon him by the
coroner. He accordingly proceeded to the cottage where
the inquest was being held, and finding each and every
available room there packed to its uttermost by interested
spectators, took up his stand on the outside of a curtained
window, where with but a slight craning of his neck he
could catch a very satisfactory view of the different witnesses
as they appeared before the jury. The day was
warm and he was by no means uncomfortable, though he
could have wished that the advantages of his position had
occasioned less envy in the breasts of the impatient crowd
that was slowly gathering at his back; or, rather, that
their sense of these advantages might have been expressed
in some more pleasing way than by the various pushes he
received from the more or less adventurous spirits who
endeavored to raise themselves over his shoulder or insinuate
themselves under his arms.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_99" id="Page_99">[99]</a></span></p>

<p>The room into which he looked was the sitting-room,
and it was, so far as he could judge in the first casual
glance he threw into it, occupied entirely by strangers.
This was a relief. Since it had become his duty to
attend this inquiry, he wished to do so with a free mind,
unhindered by the watchfulness of those who knew his
interest in the affair, or by the presence of persons around
whom his own imagination had involuntarily woven a network
of suspicion that made his observation of them at
once significant and painful.</p>

<p>The proceedings were at a standstill when he first came
upon the scene.</p>

<p>A witness had just stepped aside, who, from the impatient
shrugs of many persons present, had evidently added
little if anything to the testimony already given. Taking
advantage of the moment, Mr. Byrd leaned forward and
addressed a burly man who sat directly under him.</p>

<p>"What have they been doing all the morning?" he
asked. "Anything important?"</p>

<p>"No," was the surly reply. "A score of folks have
had their say, but not one of them has told anything
worth listening to. Nobody has seen anything, nobody
knows anything. The murderer might have risen up
through the floor to deal his blow, and having given it,
sunk back again with the same supernatural claptrap, for
all these stupid people seem to know about him."</p>

<p>The man had a loud voice, and as he made no attempt
to modulate it, his words were heard on all sides. Naturally<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_100" id="Page_100">[100]</a></span>
many heads were turned toward him, and more than
one person looked at him with an amused smile. Indeed,
of all the various individuals in his immediate vicinity,
only one forbore to take any notice of his remark. This
was a heavy, lymphatic, and somewhat abstracted-looking
fellow of nondescript appearance, who stood stiff and
straight as an exclamation point against the jamb of the
door-way that led into the front hall.</p>

<p>"But have no facts been obtained, no conclusions
reached, that would serve to awaken suspicion or put
justice on the right track?" pursued Mr. Byrd, lowering
his voice in intimation for the other to do the same.</p>

<p>But that other was of an obstinate tendency, and his
reply rose full and loud.</p>

<p>"No, unless it can be considered proved that it is only
folly to try and find out who commits a crime in these
days. Nothing else has come to light, as far as I can see,
and that much we all knew before."</p>

<p>A remark of this kind was not calculated to allay the
slight inclination to mirth which his former observation
had raised; but the coroner rapping with his gavel on
the table at this moment, every other consideration was
lost in the natural curiosity which everyone felt as to who
the next witness would be.</p>

<p>But the coroner had something to say before he called
for further testimony.</p>

<p>"Gentlemen," he remarked, in a clear and commanding
tone that at once secured attention and awakened interest,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_101" id="Page_101">[101]</a></span>
"we have spent the morning in examining the persons
who live in this street, with a view to ascertaining,
if possible, who was in conversation with Mrs. Clemmens
at the time the tramp went up to her door."</p>

<p>Was it a coincidence, or was there something in the
words themselves that called forth the stir that at this
moment took place among the people assembled directly
before Mr. Byrd? It was of the slightest character, and
was merely momentary in its duration; nevertheless, it
attracted his attention, especially as it seemed to have its
origin in a portion of the room shut off from his observation
by the corner of the wall already alluded to.</p>

<p>The coroner proceeded without pause.</p>

<p>"The result, as you know, has not been satisfactory.
No one seems to be able to tell us who it was that visited
Mrs. Clemmens on that day. I now propose to open
another examination of a totally different character,
which I hope may be more conclusive in its results.
Miss Firman, are you prepared to give your testimony?"</p>

<p>Immediately a tall, gaunt, but pleasant-faced woman
arose from the dim recesses of the parlor. She was
dressed with decency, if not taste, and took her stand
before the jury with a lady-like yet perfectly assured
air that promised well for the correctness and discretion
of her answers. The coroner at once addressed her.</p>

<p>"Your full name, madam?"</p>

<p>"Emily Letitia Firman, sir."</p>

<p>"Emily!" ejaculated Mr. Byrd, to himself, with a<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_102" id="Page_102">[102]</a></span>
throb of sudden interest. "That is the name of the
murdered woman's correspondent."</p>

<p>"Your birthplace," pursued the coroner, "and the
place of your present residence?"</p>

<p>"I was born in Danbury, Connecticut," was the reply,
"and I am living in Utica, where I support my aged
mother by dress-making."</p>

<p>"How are you related to Mrs. Clemmens, the lady who
was found murdered here two days ago?"</p>

<p>"I am her second cousin; her grandmother and my
mother were sisters."</p>

<p>"Upon what terms have you always lived, and what
can you tell us of her other relatives and connections?"</p>

<p>"We have always been friends, and I can tell you all
that is generally known of the two or three remaining
persons of her blood and kindred. They are, first, my
mother and myself, who, as I have before said, live in
Utica, where I am connected with the dress-making
establishment of Madame Trebelle; and, secondly, a
nephew of hers, the son of a favorite brother, whom she
has always supported, and to whom she has frequently
avowed her intention of leaving her accumulated savings."</p>

<p>"The name of this gentleman and his place of residence?"</p>

<p>"His name is Mansell&mdash;Craik Mansell&mdash;and he lives
in Buffalo, where he has a situation of some trust in the
large paper manufactory of Harrison, Goodman, &amp;
Chamberlin."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_103" id="Page_103">[103]</a></span></p>

<p>Buffalo! Mr. Byrd gave an involuntary start, and became,
if possible, doubly attentive.</p>

<p>The coroner's questions went on.</p>

<p>"Do you know this young man?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir. He has been several times to our house in
the course of the last five years."</p>

<p>"What can you tell us of his nature and disposition,
as well as of his regard for the woman who proposed to
benefit him so materially by her will?"</p>

<p>"Well, sir," returned Miss Firman, "it is hard to read
the nature and feelings of any man who has much character,
and Craik Mansell has a good deal of character.
But I have always thought him a very honest and capable
young man, who might do us credit some day, if he were
allowed to have his own way and not be interfered with
too much. As for his feelings toward his aunt, they were
doubtless those of gratitude, though I have never heard
him express himself in any very affectionate terms toward
her, owing, no doubt, to a natural reticence of disposition
which has been observable in him from childhood."</p>

<p>"You have, however, no reason to believe he cherished
any feelings of animosity toward his benefactress?" continued
the coroner, somewhat carelessly, "or possessed
any inordinate desire after the money she was expecting
to leave him at her death?"</p>

<p>"No, sir. Both having minds of their own, they frequently
disagreed, especially on business matters; but
there was never any bitterness between them, as far as I<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_104" id="Page_104">[104]</a></span>
know, and I never heard him say anything about his expectations
one way or the other. He is a man of much
natural force, of strong, if not violent, traits of character;
but he has too keen a sense of his own dignity to intimate
the existence of desires so discreditable to him."</p>

<p>There was something in this reply and the impartial
aspect of the lady delivering it that was worthy of notice,
perhaps. And such it would have undoubtedly received
from Mr. Byrd, at least, if the words she had used in
characterizing this person had not struck him so deeply
that he forgot to note anything further.</p>

<p>"A man of great natural force&mdash;of strong, if not
violent traits of character," he kept repeating to himself.
"The description, as I live, of the person whose picture I
attempted to draw last night."</p>

<p>And, ignoring everything else, he waited with almost
sickening expectation for the question that would link
this nephew of Mrs. Clemmens either to the tragedy
itself, or to that person still in the background, of whose
secret connection with a man of this type, he had
obtained so curious and accidental a knowledge.</p>

<p>But it did not come. With a quiet abandonment of the
by no means exhausted topic, which convinced Mr. Byrd
that the coroner had plans and suspicions to which
the foregoing questions had given no clue, Dr. Tredwell
leaned slowly forward, and, after surveying the witness
with a glance of cautious inquiry, asked in a way to concentrate
the attention of all present:<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_105" id="Page_105">[105]</a></span></p>

<p>"You say that you knew the Widow Clemmens well;
that you have always been on friendly terms with her,
and are acquainted with her affairs. Does that mean you
have been made a confidante of her troubles, her responsibilities,
and her cares?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir; that is, in as far as she ever made a confidant
of anyone. Mrs. Clemmens was not of a complaining
disposition, neither was she by nature very communicative.
Only at rare times did she make mention of
herself or her troubles: but when she did, it was invariably
to me, sir&mdash;or so she used to say; and she was
not a woman to deceive you in such matters."</p>

<p>"Very well, then, you are in a position to tell us something
of her history, and why it is she kept herself so
close after she came to this town?"</p>

<p>But Miss Firman uttered a vigorous disclaimer to this.
"No, sir," said she, "I am not. Mrs. Clemmens' history
was simple enough, but her reasons for living as she did
have never been explained. She was not naturally a
quiet woman, and, when a girl, was remarkable for
her spirits and fondness for company."</p>

<p>"Has she had any great sorrow since you knew her&mdash;any
serious loss or disappointment that may have soured
her disposition, and turned her, as it were, against
the world?"</p>

<p>"Perhaps; she felt the death of her husband very
much&mdash;indeed, has never been quite the same since
she lost him."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_106" id="Page_106">[106]</a></span></p>

<p>"And when was that, if you please?"</p>

<p>"Full fifteen years ago, sir; just before she came
to this town."</p>

<p>"Did you know Mr. Clemmens?"</p>

<p>"No, sir; none of us knew him. They were married in
some small village out West, where he died&mdash;well, I think
she wrote&mdash;a month if not less after their marriage. She
was inconsolable for a time, and, though she consented to
come East, refused to take up her abode with any of
her relatives, and so settled in this place, where she
has remained ever since."</p>

<p>The manner of the coroner suddenly changed to one of
great impressiveness.</p>

<p>"Miss Firman," he now asked, "did it ever strike you
that the hermit life she led was due to any fear or apprehension
which she may have secretly entertained?"</p>

<p>"Sir?"</p>

<p>The question was peculiar and no one wondered at the
start which the good woman gave. But what mainly
struck Mr. Byrd, and gave to the moment a seeming
importance, was the fact that she was not alone in her
surprise or even her expression of it; that the indefinable
stir he had before observed had again taken place in the
crowd before him, and that this time there was no doubt
about its having been occasioned by the movements of a
person whose elbow he could just perceive projecting
beyond the door-way that led into the hall.</p>

<p>But there was no time for speculation as to whom this<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_107" id="Page_107">[107]</a></span>
person might be. The coroner's questions were every
moment growing more rapid, and Miss Firman's answers
more interesting.</p>

<p>"I asked," here the coroner was heard to say, "whether,
in your intercourse with Mrs. Clemmens, you have ever
had reason to suppose she was the victim of any secret
or personal apprehension that might have caused her
to seclude herself as she did? Or let me put it in another
way. Can you tell me whether you know of any other
person besides this nephew of hers who is likely to
be benefited by Mrs. Clemmens' death?"</p>

<p>"Oh, sir," was the hasty and somewhat excited reply,
"you mean young Mr. Hildreth!"</p>

<p>The way in which this was said, together with the
slight flush of satisfaction or surprise which rose to the
coroner's brow, naturally awoke the slumbering excitement
of the crowd and made a small sensation. A low
murmur ran through the rooms, amid which Mr. Byrd
thought he heard a suppressed but bitter exclamation.
He could not be sure of it, however, and had just made
up his mind that his ears had deceived him, when his
attention was attracted by a shifting in the position of
the sturdy, thick-set man who had been leaning against
the opposite wall, but who now crossed and took his stand
beside the jamb, on the other side of which sat the unknown
individual toward whom so many inquiring
glances had hitherto been directed.</p>

<p>The quietness with which this change was made, and<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_108" id="Page_108">[108]</a></span>
the slight, almost imperceptible, alteration in the manner
of the person making it, brought a sudden enlightenment
to Mr. Byrd, and he at once made up his mind that this
dull, abstracted-looking nonentity leaning with such apparent
unconcern against the wall, was the new detective
who had been sent up that morning from New York.
His curiosity in regard to the identity of the individual
round the corner was not lessened by this.</p>

<p>Meantime the coroner had answered the hasty exclamation
of the witness, by disclaiming the existence of
any special meaning of his own, and had furthermore
pressed the question as to who this Mr. Hildreth was.</p>

<p>She immediately answered: "A gentleman of Toledo,
sir; a young man who could only come into his property
by the death of Mrs. Clemmens."</p>

<p>"How? You have not spoken of any such person as
connected with her."</p>

<p>"No," was her steady response; "nor was he so connected
by any tie of family or friendship. Indeed, I do
not know as they were ever acquainted, or, as for that
matter, ever saw each other's faces. The fact to which I
allude was simply the result of a will, sir, made by Mr.
Hildreth's grandfather."</p>

<p>"A will? Explain yourself. I do not understand."</p>

<p>"Well, sir, I do not know much about the law, and
may make a dozen mistakes in telling you what you wish
to know; but what I understand about the matter is this:
Mr. Hildreth, the grandfather of the gentleman of whom<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_109" id="Page_109">[109]</a></span>
I have just spoken, having a large property, which he
wanted to leave in bulk to his grandchildren,&mdash;their
father being a very dissipated and reckless man,&mdash;made
his will in such a way as to prevent its distribution
among his heirs till after the death of two persons whom
he mentioned by name. Of these two persons one was
the son of his head clerk, a young boy, who sickened and
died shortly after Mr. Hildreth himself, and the other my
cousin, the poor murdered woman, who was then a little
girl visiting the family. I do not know how she came to
be chosen by him for this purpose, unless it was that she
was particularly round and ruddy as a child, and looked
as if she might live for many years."</p>

<p>"And the Hildreths? What of them during these
years?"</p>

<p>"Well, I cannot exactly say, as I never had any acquaintance
with them myself. But I know that the
father, whose dissipated habits were the cause of this
peculiar will tying up the property, died some little time
ago; also one or two of his children, but beyond that I
know little, except that the remaining heirs are a young
gentleman and one or two young girls, all of the worldliest
and most fashionable description."</p>

<p>The coroner, who had followed all this with the greatest
interest, now asked if she knew the first name of the
young gentleman.</p>

<p>"Yes," said she, "I do. It is Gouverneur."</p>

<p>The coroner gave a satisfied nod, and remarked<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_110" id="Page_110">[110]</a></span>
casually, "It is not a common name," and then, leaning
forward, selected a paper from among several that lay on
the table before him. "Miss Firman," he inquired, retaining
this paper in his hand, "do you know when it
was that Mrs. Clemmens first became acquainted with
the fact of her name having been made use of in the
elder Mr. Hildreth's will?"</p>

<p>"Oh, years ago; when she first came of age, I believe."</p>

<p>"Was it an occasion of regret to her? Did she ever
express herself as sorry for the position in which she
stood toward this family?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir; she did."</p>

<p>The coroner's face assumed a yet greater gravity, and
his manner became more and more impressive.</p>

<p>"Can you go a step farther and say that she ever
acknowledged herself to have cherished apprehensions
of her personal safety, during these years of weary waiting
on the part of the naturally impatient heirs?"</p>

<p>A distressed look crossed the amiable spinster's face,
and she looked around at the jury with an expression
almost deprecatory in its nature.</p>

<p>"I scarcely know what answer to give," she hesitatingly
declared. "It is a good deal to say that she was apprehensive;
but I cannot help remembering that she once
told me her peace of mind had left her since she knew
there were persons in the world to whom her death would
be a matter of rejoicing. 'It makes me feel as if I were<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_111" id="Page_111">[111]</a></span>
keeping people out of their rights,' she remarked at the
same time. 'And, though it is not my fault, I should
not be surprised if some day I had to suffer for it.'"</p>

<p>"Was there ever any communication made to Mrs.
Clemmens by persons cognizant of the relation in which
she stood to these Hildreths?&mdash;or any facts or gossip
detailed to her concerning them, that would seem to give
color to her fears and supply her with any actual grounds
for her apprehensions?"</p>

<p>"No; only such tales as came to her of their expensive
ways of living and somewhat headlong rush into all
fashionable freaks and follies."</p>

<p>"And Gouverneur Hildreth? Any special gossip in
regard to him?"</p>

<p>"No!"</p>

<p>There are some noes that are equivalent to affirmations.
This was one of them. Naturally the coroner
pressed the question.</p>

<p>"I must request you to think again," he persisted.
Then, with a change of voice: "Are you sure you have
never heard anything specially derogatory to this young
man, or that Mrs. Clemmens had not?"</p>

<p>"I have friends in Toledo who speak of him as the
fastest man about town, if that could be called derogatory.
As for Mrs. Clemmens, she may have heard as
much, and she may have heard more, I cannot say. I
know she always frowned when his father's name was
mentioned."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_112" id="Page_112">[112]</a></span></p>

<p>"Miss Firman," proceeded the coroner, "in the long
years in which you have been more or less separated
from Mrs. Clemmens, you have, doubtless, kept up a
continued if not frequent correspondence with her?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir."</p>

<p>"Do you think, from the commencement and general
tone of this letter, which I found lying half finished
on her desk, that it was written and intended for yourself?"</p>

<p>Taking the letter from his outstretched hand, she
fumbled nervously for her glasses, put them on, and
then glanced hurriedly at the sheet, saying as she did
so:</p>

<p>"There can be no doubt of it. She had no other
friend whom she would have been likely to address as
'Dear Emily.'"</p>

<p>"Gentlemen of the Jury, you have a right to hear the
words written by the deceased but a few hours, if not a
few minutes, previous to the brutal assault that has led to
the present inquiry. Miss Firman, as the letter was intended
for yourself, will you be kind enough to read it
aloud, after which you will hand it over to the jury."</p>

<p>With a gloomy shake of her head, and a certain trembling
in her voice, that was due, perhaps, as much to
the sadness of her task as to any foreboding of the real
nature of the words she had to read, she proceeded to
comply:</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p>"<span class="smcap">Dear Emily</span>:&mdash;I don't know why I sit down to write to you
to-day. I have plenty to do, and morning is no time for indulging<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_113" id="Page_113">[113]</a></span>
in sentimentalities. But I feel strangely lonely and strangely anxious.
Nothing goes just to my mind, and somehow the many causes for
secret fear which I have always had, assume an undue prominence in
my mind. It is always so when I am not quite well. In vain I
reason with myself, saying that respectable people do not lightly
enter into crime. But there are so many to whom my death would
be more than welcome, that I constantly see myself in the act of
being&mdash;&mdash;</p></div>

<p>"Good heavens!" ejaculated the spinster, dropping
the paper from her hand and looking dismally around
upon the assembled faces of the now deeply interested
spectators.</p>

<p>Seeing her dismay, a man who stood at the right of the
coroner, and who seemed to be an officer of the law,
quietly advanced, and picking up the paper she had let
fall, handed it to the jury. The coroner meanwhile
recalled her attention to herself.</p>

<p>"Miss Firman," said he, "allow me to put to you one
final question which, though it might not be called a
strictly legal one, is surely justified by the gravity of the
situation. If Mrs. Clemmens had finished this letter, and
you in due course had received it, what conclusion
would you have drawn from the words you have just
read?"</p>

<p>"I could have drawn but one, sir. I should have considered
that the solitary life led by my cousin was telling
upon her mind."</p>

<p>"But these terrors of which she speaks? To what and
whom would you have attributed them?"</p>

<p>"I don't like to say it, and I don't know as I am<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_114" id="Page_114">[114]</a></span>
justified in saying it, but it would have been impossible
for me, under the circumstances, to have thought of any
other source for them than the one we have already
mentioned."</p>

<p>"And that is?" inexorably pursued the coroner.</p>

<p>"Mr. Gouverneur Hildreth."</p>

</body>