<body>
<p>THE arrest of Mr. Hildreth had naturally quieted
public suspicion by fixing attention upon a definite
point, so that when Mr. Byrd returned to Sibley he
found that he could pursue whatever inquiries he chose
without awakening the least mistrust that he was on the
look-out for the murderer of Mrs. Clemmens.</p>

<p>The first use he made of his time was to find out if Mr.
Mansell, or any man answering to his description, had
been seen to take the train from the Sibley station on the
afternoon or evening of the fatal Tuesday. The result
was unequivocal. No such person had been seen there,
and no such person was believed to have been at the
station at any time during that day. This was his first
disappointment.</p>

<p>He next made the acquaintance of the conductors on
that line of street-cars by means of which he believed
Mr. Mansell to have made his escape. But with no better
result. Not one of them remembered having taken
up, of late, any passenger from the terminus, of the appearance
described by Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>And this was his second disappointment.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_200" id="Page_200">[200]</a></span></p>

<p>His next duty was obviously to change his plan of
action and make the town of Monteith the centre of his
inquiries. But he hesitated to do this till he had made one
other visit to the woods in whose recesses he still believed
the murderer to have plunged immediately upon
dealing the fatal blow.</p>

<p>He went by the way of the street railroad, not wishing
to be again seen crossing the bog, and arrived at the hut
in the centre of the glade without meeting anyone or
experiencing the least adventure.</p>

<p>This time he went in, but nothing was to be seen save
bare logs, a rough hearth where a fire had once been
built, and the rudest sort of bench and table; and hurrying
forth again, he looked doubtfully up and down the
glade in pursuit of some hint to guide him in his future
researches.</p>

<p>Suddenly he received one. The thick wall of foliage
which at first glance revealed but the two outlets already
traversed by him, showed upon close inspection a third
path, opening well behind the hut, and leading, as he
soon discovered, in an entirely opposite direction from
that which had taken him to West Side. Merely stopping
to cast one glance at the sun, which was still well
overhead, he set out on this new path. It was longer and
much more intricate than the other. It led through hollows
and up steeps, and finally out into an open blackberry
patch, where it seemed to terminate. But a close
study of the surrounding bushes, soon disclosed<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_201" id="Page_201">[201]</a></span>
signs of a narrow and thread-like passage curving about a
rocky steep. Entering this he presently found himself
drawn again into the woods, which he continued to traverse
till he came to a road cut through the heart of the
forest, for the use of the lumbermen. Here he paused.
Should he turn to the right or left? He decided to turn
to the right. Keeping in the road, which was rough with
stones where it was not marked with the hoofs of both
horses and cattle, he walked for some distance. Then he
emerged into open space again, and discovered that he
was on the hillside overlooking Monteith, and that by a
mile or two's further walk over the highway that was
dimly to be descried at the foot of the hill, he would
reach the small station devoted to the uses of the quarrymen
that worked in this place.</p>

<p>There was no longer any further doubt that this route,
and not the other, had been the one taken by Mr. Mansell
on that fatal afternoon. But he was determined not
to trust any further to mere surmises; so hastening down
the hill, he made his way in the direction of the highway,
meaning to take the walk alluded to, and learn for himself
what passengers had taken the train at this point on
the Tuesday afternoon so often mentioned.</p>

<p>But a barrier rose in his way. A stream which he had
barely noticed in the quick glance he threw over the landscape
from the brow of the hill, separated with quite a
formidable width of water the hillside from the road, and
it was not till he wandered back for some distance along<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_202" id="Page_202">[202]</a></span>
its banks, that he found a bridge. The time thus lost was
considerable, but he did not think of it; and when, after a
long and weary tramp, he stepped upon the platform of
the small station, he was so eager to learn if he had correctly
followed the scent, that he forgot to remark that
the road he had taken was anything but an easy or
feasible one for a hasty escape.</p>

<p>The accommodation-trains, which alone stop at this
point, had both passed, and he found the station-master
at leisure. A single glance into his honest and intelligent
face convinced the detective that he had a reliable
man to deal with. He at once commenced his questions.</p>

<p>"Do many persons besides the quarrymen take the
train at this place?" asked he.</p>

<p>"Not many," was the short but sufficiently good-natured
rejoinder. "I guess I could easily count them
on the fingers of one hand," he laughed.</p>

<p>"You would be apt to notice, then, if a strange gentleman
got on board here at any time, would you not?"</p>

<p>"Guess so; not often troubled that way, but sometimes&mdash;sometimes."</p>

<p>"Can you tell me whether a young man of very dark
complexion, heavy mustache, and a determined, if not
excited, expression, took the cars here for Monteith, say,
any day last week?"</p>

<p>"I don't know," mused the man. "Dark complexion,
you say, large mustache; let me see."</p>

<p>"No dandy," Mr. Byrd carefully explained, "but a<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_203" id="Page_203">[203]</a></span>
strong man, who believes in work. He was possibly in a
state of somewhat nervous hurry," he went on, suggestively,
"and if he wore an overcoat at all, it was a gray
one."</p>

<p>The face of the man lighted up.</p>

<p>"I seem to remember," said he. "Did he have a very
bright blue eye and a high color?"</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd nodded.</p>

<p>"And did he carry a peculiarly shaped bag, of which
he was very careful?"</p>

<p>"I don't know," said Mr. Byrd, but remembering the
model, added with quick assurance, "I have no doubt he
did"; which seemed to satisfy the other, for he at once
cried:</p>

<p>"I recollect such a person very well. I noticed him
before he got to the station; as soon in fact as he came
in sight. He was walking down the highway, and seemed
to be thinking about something. He's of the kind to
attract attention. What about him, sir?"</p>

<p>"Nothing. He was in trouble of some kind, and he
went from home without saying where he was going;
and his friends are anxious about him, that is all. Do
you think you could swear to his face if you saw it?"</p>

<p>"I think I could. He was the only stranger that got
on to the cars that afternoon."</p>

<p>"Do you remember, then, the day?"</p>

<p>"Well, no, now, I don't."</p>

<p>"But can't you, if you try? Wasn't there something
done by you that day which will assist your memory?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_204" id="Page_204">[204]</a></span></p>

<p>Again that slow "Let me see" showed that the man
was pondering. Suddenly he slapped his thigh and exclaimed:</p>

<p>"You might be a lawyer's clerk now, mightn't you;
or, perhaps, a lawyer himself? I do remember that a
large load of stone was sent off that day, and a minute's
look at my book&mdash;&mdash; It was Tuesday," he presently
affirmed.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd drew a deep breath. There is sadness mixed
with the satisfaction of such a triumph.</p>

<p>"I am much obliged to you," he said, in acknowledgment
of the other's trouble. "The friends of this gentleman
will now have little difficulty in tracing him. There
is but one thing further I should like to make sure of."</p>

<p>And taking from his memorandum-book the picture he
kept concealed there, he showed him the face of Mr.
Mansell, now altered to a perfect likeness, and asked him
if he recognized it.</p>

<p>The decided Yes which he received made further
questions unnecessary.</p>

</body>