<body>
<p>THESE words rang in the ears of Mr. Ferris. For
he felt himself disturbed by them. Hickory
did not believe Mr. Mansell innocent.</p>

<p>At last he sent for that detective.</p>

<p>"Hickory," he asked, "why do you think Mansell,
rather than Hildreth, committed this crime?"</p>

<p>Now this query, on the part of the District Attorney,
put Hickory into a quandary. He wished to keep his
promise to Horace Byrd, and yet he greatly desired to
answer his employer's question truthfully. Without any
special sympathies of his own, he yet had an undeniable
leaning toward justice, and justice certainly demanded
the indictment of Mansell. He ended by compromising
matters.</p>

<p>"Mr. Ferris," said he, "when you went to see Miss
Dare the other day, what did you think of her state of
mind?"</p>

<p>"That it was a very unhappy one."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_279" id="Page_279">[279]</a></span></p>

<p>"Didn't you think more than that, sir? Didn't you
think she believed Mr. Mansell guilty of this crime?"</p>

<p>"Yes," admitted the other, with reluctance.</p>

<p>"If Miss Dare is attached to Mr. Mansell, she must
feel certain of his guilt to <i>offer</i> testimony against him.
Her belief should go for something, sir; for much, it
strikes me, when you consider what a woman she is."</p>

<p>This conversation increased Mr. Ferris' uneasiness.
Much as he wished to spare the feelings of Miss Dare,
and, through her, those of his friend, Mr. Orcutt, the
conviction of Mansell's criminality was slowly gaining
ground in his mind. He remembered the peculiar manner
of the latter during the interview they had held
together; his quiet acceptance of the position of a suspected
man, and his marked reticence in regard to the
ring. Though the delicate nature of the interests involved
might be sufficient to explain his behavior in the
latter regard, his whole conduct could not be said to be
that of a disinterested man, even if it were not necessarily
that of a guilty one. In whatever way Mr. Ferris looked
at it, he could come to but one conclusion, and that was,
that justice to Hildreth called for such official attention
to the evidence which had been collected against Mansell
as should secure the indictment of that man against
whom could be brought the more convincing proof of
guilt.</p>

<p>Not that Mr. Ferris meant, or in anywise considered it
good policy, to have Mansell arrested at this time. As<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_280" id="Page_280">[280]</a></span>
the friend of Mr. Orcutt, it was manifestly advisable for
him to present whatever evidence he possessed against
Mansell directly to the Grand Jury. For in this way he
would not only save the lawyer from the pain and humiliation
of seeing the woman he so much loved called up as
a witness against the man who had successfully rivalled
him in her affections, but would run the chance, at least,
of eventually preserving from open knowledge, the various
details, if not the actual facts, which had led to this
person being suspected of crime. For the Grand Jury is
a body whose business it is to make secret inquisition into
criminal offences. Its members are bound by oath to
the privacy of their deliberations. If, therefore, they
should find the proofs presented to them by the District
Attorney insufficient to authorize an indictment against
Mansell, nothing of their proceedings would transpire.
While, on the contrary, if they decided that the evidence
was such as to oblige them to indict Mansell instead of
Hildreth, neither Mr. Orcutt nor Miss Dare could hold
the District Attorney accountable for the exposures that
must follow.</p>

<p>The course, therefore, of Mr. Ferris was determined
upon. All the evidence in his possession against both
parties, together with the verdict of the coroner's jury,
should go at once before the Grand Jury; Mansell, in the
meantime, being so watched that a bench-warrant issuing
upon the indictment would have him safely in custody at
any moment.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_281" id="Page_281">[281]</a></span></p>

<p>But this plan for saving Mr. Orcutt's feelings did not
succeed as fully as Mr. Ferris hoped. By some means or
other the rumor got abroad that another man than Hildreth
had fallen under the suspicion of the authorities,
and one day Mr. Ferris found himself stopped on the
street by the very person he had for a week been endeavoring
to avoid.</p>

<p>"Mr. Orcutt!" he cried, "how do you do? I did not
recognize you at first."</p>

<p>"No?" was the sharp rejoinder. "I'm not myself
nowadays. I have a bad cold." With which impatient
explanation he seized Mr. Ferris by the arm and said:
"But what is this I hear? You have your eye on another
party suspected of being Mrs. Clemmens' murderer?"</p>

<p>The District Attorney bowed uneasily. He had hoped
to escape the discussion of this subject with Mr. Orcutt.</p>

<p>The lawyer observed the embarrassment his question
had caused, and instantly turned pale, notwithstanding
the hardihood which a long career at the bar had given
him.</p>

<p>"Ferris," he pursued, in a voice he strove hard to
keep steady, "we have always been good friends, in spite
of the many tilts we have had together before the court.
Will you be kind enough to inform me if your suspicions
are founded upon evidence collected by yourself, or at
the instigation of parties professing to know more about
this murder than they have hitherto revealed?"</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris could not fail to understand the true nature<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_282" id="Page_282">[282]</a></span>
of this question, and out of pure friendship answered
quietly:</p>

<p>"I have allowed myself to look with suspicion upon
this Mansell&mdash;for it is Mrs. Clemmens' nephew who is at
present occupying our attention,&mdash;because the facts which
have come to light in his regard are as criminating in
their nature as those which have transpired in reference
to Mr. Hildreth. The examination into this matter,
which my duty requires, has been anything but pleasant
to me, Mr. Orcutt. The evidence of such witnesses as
will have to be summoned before the Grand Jury, is
of a character to bring open humiliation, if not secret
grief, upon persons for whom I entertain the highest
esteem."</p>

<p>The pointed way in which this was said convinced
Mr. Orcutt that his worst fears had been realized.
Turning partly away, but not losing his hold upon
the other's arm, he observed with what quietness he
could:</p>

<p>"You say that so strangely, I feel forced to put
another question to you. If what I have to ask strikes
you with any surprise, remember that my own astonishment
and perplexity at being constrained to interrogate
you in this way, are greater than any sensation you can
yourself experience. What I desire to know is this.
Among the witnesses you have collected against this
last suspected party, there are some women, are there
not?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_283" id="Page_283">[283]</a></span></p>

<p>The District Attorney gravely bowed.</p>

<p>"Ferris, is Miss Dare amongst them?"</p>

<p>"Orcutt, she is."</p>

<p>With a look that expressed his secret mistrust the
lawyer gave way to a sudden burst of feeling.</p>

<p>"Ferris," he wrathfully acknowledged, "I may be a
fool, but I don't see what she can have to say on this
subject. It is impossible she should know anything
about the murder; and, as for this Mansell&mdash;&mdash;" He
made a violent gesture with his hand, as if the very idea
of her having any acquaintance with the nephew of Mrs.
Clemmens were simply preposterous.</p>

<p>The District Attorney, who saw from this how utterly
ignorant the other was concerning Miss Dare's relations
to the person named, felt his embarrassment increase.</p>

<p>"Mr. Orcutt," he replied, "strange as it may appear
to you, Miss Dare <i>has</i> testimony to give of value to the
prosecution, or she would not be reckoned among its
witnesses. What that testimony is, I must leave to her
discretion to make known to you, as she doubtless will,
if you question her with sufficient consideration. I
never forestall matters myself, nor would you wish me to
tell you what would more becomingly come from her
own lips. But, Mr. Orcutt, this I can say: that if it had
been given me to choose between the two alternatives of
resigning my office and of pursuing an inquiry which
obliges me to submit to the unpleasantness of a judicial
investigation a person held in so much regard by yourself,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_284" id="Page_284">[284]</a></span>
I would have given up my office with pleasure, so
keenly do I feel the embarrassment of my position and
the unhappiness of yours. But any mere resignation on
my part would have availed nothing to save Miss Dare
from appearing before the Grand Jury. The evidence
she has to give in this matter makes the case against
Mansell as strong as that against Hildreth, and it would
be the duty of any public prosecutor to recognize the
fact and act accordingly."</p>

<p>Mr. Orcutt, who had by the greatest effort succeeded
in calming himself through this harangue, flashed sarcastically
at this last remark, and surveyed Mr. Ferris with
a peculiar look.</p>

<p>"Are you sure," he inquired in a slow, ironical tone,
"that she has not succeeded in making it stronger?"</p>

<p>The look, the tone, were unexpected, and greatly
startled Mr. Ferris. Drawing nearer to his friend, he
returned his gaze with marked earnestness.</p>

<p>"What do you mean?" he asked, with secret anxiety.</p>

<p>But the wary lawyer had already repented this unwise
betrayal of his own doubts. Meeting his companion's
eye with a calmness that amazed himself, he remarked,
instead of answering:</p>

<p>"It was through Miss Dare, then, that your attention
was first drawn to Mrs. Clemmens' nephew?"</p>

<p>"No," disclaimed Mr. Ferris, hastily. "The detectives
already had their eyes upon him. But a hint from
her went far toward determining me upon pursuing the<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_285" id="Page_285">[285]</a></span>
matter," he allowed, seeing that his friend was determined
upon hearing the truth.</p>

<p>"So then," observed the other, with a stern dryness
that recalled his manner at the bar, "she opened a communication
with you herself?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>It was enough. Mr. Orcutt dropped the arm of Mr.
Ferris, and, with his usual hasty bow, turned shortly
away. The revelation which he believed himself to have
received in this otherwise far from satisfactory interview,
was one that he could not afford to share&mdash;that is, not
yet; not while any hope remained that circumstances
would so arrange themselves as to make it unnecessary
for him to do so. If Imogene Dare, out of her insane desire
to free Gouverneur Hildreth from the suspicion that
oppressed him, had resorted to perjury and invented evidence
tending to show the guilt of another party&mdash;and
remembering her admissions at their last interview and
the language she had used in her letter of farewell, no
other conclusion offered itself,&mdash;what alternative was left
him but to wait till he had seen her before he proceeded
to an interference that would separate her from himself
by a gulf still greater than that which already existed between
them? To be sure, the jealousy which consumed
him, the passionate rage that seized his whole being when
he thought of all she dared do for the man she loved,
or that he thought she loved, counselled him to nip this
attempt of hers in the bud, and by means of a word to Mr.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_286" id="Page_286">[286]</a></span>
Ferris throw such a doubt upon her veracity as a witness
against this new party as should greatly influence the action
of the former in the critical business he had in hand.
But Mr. Orcutt, while a prey to unwonted passions, had
not yet lost control of his reason, and reason told him
that impulse was an unsafe guide for him to follow at this
time. Thought alone&mdash;deep and concentrated thought&mdash;would
help him out of this crisis with honor and safety.
But thought would not come at call. In all his quick
walk home but one mad sentence formulated itself in his
brain, and that was: "She loves him so, she is willing to
perjure herself for his sake!" Nor, though he entered
his door with his usual bustling air and went through all
the customary observances of the hour with an appearance
of no greater abstraction and gloom than had characterized
him ever since the departure of Miss Dare, no
other idea obtruded itself upon his mind than this: "She
loves him so, she is willing to perjure herself for his
sake!"</p>

<p>Even the sight of his books, his papers, and all that
various paraphernalia of work and study which gives
character to a lawyer's library, was insufficient to restore
his mind to its usual condition of calm thought and accurate
judgment. Not till the clock struck eight and he
found himself almost without his own volition at Professor
Darling's house, did he realize all the difficulties of
his position and the almost intolerable nature of the
undertaking which had been forced upon him by the
exigencies of the situation.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_287" id="Page_287">[287]</a></span></p>

<p>Miss Dare, who had refused to see him at first, came
into his presence with an expression that showed him with
what reluctance she had finally responded to his peremptory
message. But in the few heavy moments he had
been obliged to wait, he had schooled himself to expect
coldness if not absolute rebuff. He therefore took no
heed of the haughty air of inquiry which she turned upon
him, but came at once to the point, saying almost before
she had closed the door:</p>

<p>"What is this you have been doing, Imogene?"</p>

<p>A flush, such as glints across the face of a marble
statue, visited for a moment the still whiteness of her set
features, then she replied:</p>

<p>"Mr. Orcutt, when I left your house I told you I had
a wretched and unhappy duty to perform, that, when
once accomplished, would separate us forever. I have
done it, and the separation has come; why attempt to
bridge it?"</p>

<p>There was a sad weariness in her tone, a sad weariness
in her face, but he seemed to recognize neither. The
demon jealousy&mdash;that hindrance to all unselfish feeling&mdash;had
gripped him again, and the words that came to his
lips were at once bitter and masterful.</p>

<p>"Imogene," he cried, with as much wrath in his tone
as he had ever betrayed in her presence, "you do not
answer my question. I ask you what you have been
doing, and you reply, your duty. Now, what do you
mean by duty? Tell me at once and distinctly, for I<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_288" id="Page_288">[288]</a></span>
will no longer be put off by any roundabout phrases concerning
a matter of such vital importance."</p>

<p>"Tell you?" This repetition of his words had a
world of secret anguish in it which he could not help but
notice. She did not succumb to it, however, but continued
in another moment: "You said to me, in the last
conversation we held together, that Gouverneur Hildreth
could not be released from his terrible position without a
distinct proof of innocence or the advancement of such
evidence against another as should turn suspicion aside
from him into a new and more justifiable quarter. I
could not, any more than he, give a distinct proof of his
innocence; but I could furnish the authorities with testimony
calculated to arouse suspicion in a fresh direction,
and I did it. For Gouverneur Hildreth had to be saved
at any price&mdash;<i>at any price</i>."</p>

<p>The <ins title="Transcriber's Note: original reads 'desparing'">despairing</ins> emphasis she laid upon the last phrase
went like hot steel to Mr. Orcutt's heart, and made his
eyes blaze with almost uncontrollable passion.</p>

<p>"<i>Je ne vois pas la necessit&eacute;</i>," said he, in that low, restrained
tone of bitter sarcasm which made his invective
so dreaded by opposing counsel. "If Gouverneur Hildreth
finds himself in an unfortunate position, he has
only his own follies and inordinate desire for this woman's
death to thank for it. Because you love him and compassionate
him beyond all measure, that is no reason why
you should perjure yourself, and throw the burden of his
shame upon a man as innocent as Mr. Mansell."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_289" id="Page_289">[289]</a></span></p>

<p>But this tone, though it had made many a witness quail
before it, neither awed nor intimidated her.</p>

<p>"You&mdash;you do not understand," came from her white
lips. "It is Mr. Hildreth who is perfectly innocent, and
not&mdash;&mdash;" But here she paused. "You will excuse me
from saying more," she said. "You, as a lawyer, ought
to know that I should not be compelled to speak on a
subject like this except under oath."</p>

<p>"Imogene!" A change had passed over Mr. Orcutt.
"Imogene, do you mean to affirm that you really have
charges to make against Craik Mansell; that this evidence
you propose to give is real, and not manufactured for the
purpose of leading suspicion aside from Hildreth?"</p>

<p>It was an insinuation against her veracity he never
could have made, or she have listened to, a few weeks before;
but the shield of her pride was broken between
them, and neither he nor she seemed to give any thought
to the reproach conveyed in these words.</p>

<p>"What I have to say is the truth," she murmured.
"I have not manufactured anything."</p>

<p>With an astonishment he took no pains to conceal, Mr.
Orcutt anxiously surveyed her. He could not believe
this was so, yet how could he convict her of falsehood in
face of that suffering expression of resolve which she
wore. His methods as a lawyer came to his relief.</p>

<p>"Imogene," he slowly responded, "if, as you say, you
are in possession of positive evidence against this Mansell,
how comes it that you jeopardized the interests of the<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_290" id="Page_290">[290]</a></span>
man you loved by so long withholding your testimony?"</p>

<p>But instead of the flush of confusion which he expected,
she flashed upon him with a sudden revelation of
feeling that made him involuntarily start.</p>

<p>"Shall I tell you?" she replied. "You will have to
know some time, and why not now? I kept back the
truth," she replied, advancing a step, but without raising
her eyes to his, "because it is not the aspersed Hildreth
that I love, but&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>Why did she pause? What was it she found so hard
to speak? Mr. Orcutt's expression became terrible.</p>

<p>"But the other," she murmured at last.</p>

<p>"The other!"</p>

<p>It was now her turn to start and look at him in surprise,
if not in some fear.</p>

<p>"What other?" he cried, seizing her by the hand.
"Name him. I will have no further misunderstanding
between us."</p>

<p>"Is it necessary?" she asked, with bitterness. "Will
Heaven spare me nothing?" Then, as she saw no relenting
in the fixed gaze that held her own, whispered, in
a hollow tone: "You have just spoken the name yourself&mdash;Craik
Mansell."</p>

<p>"Ah!"</p>

<p>Incredulity, anger, perplexity, all the emotions that
were seething in this man's troubled soul, spoke in that
simple exclamation. Then silence settled upon the room,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_291" id="Page_291">[291]</a></span>
during which she gained control over herself, and he the
semblance of it if no more. She was the first to speak.</p>

<p>"I know," said she, "that this avowal on my part
seems almost incredible to you; but it is no more so than
that which you so readily received from me the other day
in reference to Gouverneur Hildreth. A woman who
spends a month away from home makes acquaintances
which she does not always mention when she comes
back. I saw Mr. Mansell in Buffalo, and&mdash;&mdash;" turning,
she confronted the lawyer with her large gray eyes, in
which a fire burned such as he had never seen there
before&mdash;"and grew to esteem him," she went on. "For
the first time in my life I found myself in the presence of
a man whose nature commanded mine. His ambition,
his determination, his unconventional and forcible character
woke aspirations within me such as I had never
known myself capable of before. Life, which had
stretched out before me with a somewhat monotonous
outlook, changed to a panorama of varied and wonderful
experiences, as I listened to his voice and met the glance
of his eye; and soon, before he knew it, and certainly
before I realized it, words of love passed between us, and
the agony of that struggle began which has ended&mdash;&mdash; Ah,
let me not think how, or I shall go mad!"</p>

<p>Mr. Orcutt, who had watched her with a lover's fascination
during all this attempted explanation, shivered
for a moment at this last bitter cry of love and despair,
but spoke up when he did speak, with a coldness that
verged on severity.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_292" id="Page_292">[292]</a></span></p>

<p>"So you loved another man when you came back to
my home and listened to the words of passion which
came from <i>my</i> lips, and the hopes of future bliss and
happiness that welled up from <i>my</i> heart?"</p>

<p>"Yes," she whispered, "and, as you will remember, I
tried to suppress those hopes and turn a deaf ear to those
words, though I had but little prospect of marrying a
man whose fortunes depended upon the success of an invention
he could persuade no one to believe in."</p>

<p>"Yet you brought yourself to listen to those hopes on
the afternoon of the murder," he suggested, ironically.</p>

<p>"Can you blame me for that?" she cried, "remembering
how you pleaded, and what a revulsion of feeling I
was laboring under?"</p>

<p>A smile bitter as the fate which loomed before him,
and scornful as the feelings that secretly agitated his
breast, parted Mr. Orcutt's pale lips for an instant, and
he seemed about to give utterance to some passionate rejoinder,
but he subdued himself with a determined effort,
and quietly waiting till his voice was under full control,
remarked with lawyer-like brevity at last:</p>

<p>"You have not told me what evidence you have to
give against young Mansell?"</p>

<p>Her answer came with equal brevity if not equal
quietness.</p>

<p>"No; I have told Mr. Ferris; is not that enough?"</p>

<p>But he did not consider it so. "Ferris is a District
Attorney," said he, "and has demanded your confidence<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_293" id="Page_293">[293]</a></span>
for the purposes of justice, while I am your friend. The
action you have taken is peculiar, and you may need
advice. But how can I give it or how can you receive it
unless there is a complete understanding between us?"</p>

<p>Struck in spite of herself, moved perhaps by a hope she
had not allowed herself to contemplate before, she looked
at him long and earnestly.</p>

<p>"And do you really wish to help me?" she inquired.
"Are you so generous as to forgive the pain, and possibly
the humiliation, I have inflicted upon you, and lend
me your assistance in case my testimony works its due
effect, and he be brought to trial instead of Mr. Hildreth?"</p>

<p>It was a searching and a pregnant question, for which
Mr. Orcutt was possibly not fully prepared, but his newly
gained control did not give way.</p>

<p>"I must insist upon hearing the facts before I say anything of my intentions," he averred. "Whatever they
may be, they cannot be more startling in their character
than those which have been urged against Hildreth."</p>

<p>"But they are," she whispered. Then with a quick
look around her, she put her mouth close to Mr. Orcutt's
ear and breathed:</p>

<p>"Mr. Hildreth is not the only man who, unseen by the
neighbors, visited Mrs. Clemmens' house on the morning
of the murder. Craik Mansell was there also."</p>

<p>"Craik Mansell! How do you know that? Ah," he
pursued, with the scornful intonation of a jealous man,
"I forgot that you are lovers."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_294" id="Page_294">[294]</a></span></p>

<p>The sneer, natural as it was, perhaps, seemed to go to
her heart and wake its fiercest indignation.</p>

<p>"Hush," cried she, towering upon him with an ominous
flash of her proud eye. "Do not turn the knife in
<i>that</i> wound or you will seal my lips forever." And she
moved hastily away from his side. But in another instant
she determinedly returned, saying: "This is no
time for indulging in one's sensibilities. I affirm that
Craik Mansell visited his aunt on that day, because the
ring which was picked up on the floor of her dining-room&mdash;you
remember the ring, Mr. Orcutt?"</p>

<p>Remember it! Did he not? All his many perplexities
in its regard crowded upon him as he made a hurried bow
of acquiescence.</p>

<p>"It belonged to him," she continued. "He had
bought it for me, or, rather, had had the diamond reset
for me&mdash;it had been his mother's. Only the day before,
he had tried to put it on my finger in a meeting we had
in the woods back of his aunt's house. But I refused to
allow him. The prospect ahead was too dismal and unrelenting
for us to betroth ourselves, whatever our hopes
or wishes might be."</p>

<p>"You&mdash;you had a meeting with this man in the woods
the day before his aunt was assaulted," echoed Mr. Orcutt,
turning upon her with an amazement that swallowed
up his wrath.</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"And he afterward visited her house?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_295" id="Page_295">[295]</a></span></p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"And dropped that ring there?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>Starting slowly, as if the thoughts roused by this short
statement of facts were such as demanded instant consideration,
Mr. Orcutt walked to the other side of the
room, where he paced up and down in silence for some
minutes. When he returned it was the lawyer instead of
the lover who stood before her.</p>

<p>"Then, it was the simple fact of finding this gentleman's
ring on the floor of Mrs. Clemmens' dining-room
that makes you consider him the murderer of his aunt?"
he asked, with a tinge of something like irony in his
tone.</p>

<p>"No," she breathed rather than answered. "That
was a proof, of course, that he had been there, but I
should never have thought of it as an evidence of guilt
if the woman herself had not uttered, in our hearing
that tell-tale exclamation of 'Ring and Hand,' and if, in
the talk I held with Mr. Mansell the day before, he had
not betrayed&mdash;&mdash; Why do you stop me?" she whispered.</p>

<p>"I did not stop you," he hastily assured her. "I am
too anxious to hear what you have to say. Go on, Imogene.
What did this Mansell betray? I&mdash;I ask as a
father might," he added, with some dignity and no little
effort.</p>

<p>But her fears had taken alarm, or her caution been
aroused, and she merely said:<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_296" id="Page_296">[296]</a></span></p>

<p>"The five thousand dollars which his aunt leaves him
is just the amount he desired to start him in life."</p>

<p>"Did he wish such an amount?" Mr. Orcutt asked.</p>

<p>"Very much."</p>

<p>"And acknowledged it in the conversation he had with
you?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"Imogene," declared the lawyer, "if you do not want
to insure Mr. Mansell's indictment, I would suggest to
you not to lay too great stress upon any <i>talk</i> you may
have held with him."</p>

<p>But she cried with unmoved sternness, and a relentless
crushing down of all emotion that was at once amazing
and painful to see:</p>

<p>"The innocent is to be saved from the gallows, no
matter what the fate of the guilty may be."</p>

<p>And a short but agitated silence followed which Mr.
Orcutt broke at last by saying:</p>

<p>"Are these all the facts you have to give me?"</p>

<p>She started, cast him a quick look, bowed her head,
and replied:</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>There was something in the tone of this assertion that
made him repeat his question.</p>

<p>"Are these <i>all</i> the facts you have to give me?"</p>

<p>Her answer came ringing and emphatic now.</p>

<p>"Yes," she avowed&mdash;"all."</p>

<p>With a look of relief, slowly smoothing out the deep<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_297" id="Page_297">[297]</a></span>
furrows of his brow, Mr. Orcutt, for the second time,
walked thoughtfully away in evident consultation with his
own thoughts. This time he was gone so long, the suspense
became almost intolerable to Imogene. Feeling
that she could endure it no longer, she followed him at
last, and laid her hand upon his arm.</p>

<p>"Speak," she impetuously cried. "Tell me what you
think; what I have to expect."</p>

<p>But he shook his head.</p>

<p>"Wait," he returned; "wait till the Grand Jury has
brought in a bill of indictment. It will, doubtless, be
against one of these two men; but I must know which,
before I can say or do anything."</p>

<p>"And do you think there can be any doubt about
which of these two it will be?" she inquired, with sudden
emotion.</p>

<p>"There is always doubt," he rejoined, "about anything
or everything a body of men may do. This is a very
remarkable case, Imogene," he resumed, with increased
sombreness; "the most remarkable one, perhaps, that
has ever come under my observation. What the Grand
Jury will think of it; upon which party, Mansell or Hildreth,
the weight of their suspicion will fall, neither I nor
Ferris, nor any other man, can prophesy with any assurance.
The evidence against both is, in so far as we know,
entirely circumstantial. That you believe Mr. Mansell
to be the guilty party&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>"Believe!" she murmured; "I know it."</p>

<p>"That you <i>believe</i> him to be the guilty party," the wary<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_298" id="Page_298">[298]</a></span>
lawyer pursued, as if he had not heard her "does not
imply that they will believe it too. Hildreth comes of a
bad stock, and his late attempt at suicide tells wonderfully
against him; yet, the facts you have to give in
Mansell's disfavor are strong also, and Heaven only
knows what the upshot will be. However, a few weeks
will determine all that, and then&mdash;&mdash;" Pausing, he
looked at her, and, as he did so, the austerity and self-command
of the lawyer vanished out of sight, and the
passionate gleam of a fierce and overmastering love
shone again in his eyes. "And then," he cried, "then
we will see what Tremont Orcutt can do to bring order
out of this chaos."</p>

<p>There was so much resolve in his look, such a hint of
promise in his tone, that she flushed with something
almost akin to hope.</p>

<p>"Oh, generous&mdash;&mdash;" she began.</p>

<p>But he stopped her before she could say more.</p>

<p>"Wait," he repeated; "wait till we see what action
will be taken by the Grand Jury." And taking her hand,
he looked earnestly, if not passionately, in her face.
"Imogene," he commenced, "if I should succeed&mdash;&mdash;"
But there he himself stopped short with a quick recalling
of his own words, perhaps. "No," he cried, "I will say
no more till we see which of these two men is to be
brought to trial." And, pressing her hand to his lips, he
gave her one last look in which was concentrated all the
secret passions which had been called forth by this hour,
and hastily left the room.</p>

</body>