<body>
<p>IN the pause that followed, Miss Firman stepped
aside, and Mr. Byrd, finding his attention released,
stole a glance toward the hall-way and its nearly concealed
occupant. He found the elbow in agitated movement,
and, as he looked at it, saw it disappear and a hand
project into view, groping for the handkerchief which was,
doubtless, hidden in the hat which he now perceived
standing on the floor in the corner of the door-way. He
looked at that hand well. It was large, white, and
elegantly formed, and wore a seal ring of conspicuous
size upon the little finger. He had scarcely noticed this
ring, and wondered if others had seen it too, when the
hand plunged into the hat, and drawing out the kerchief,
vanished with it behind the jamb that had already hidden
so much from his view.</p>

<p>"A fine gentleman's hand, and a fine gentleman's ring,"
was Mr. Byrd's mental comment; and he was about
to glance aside, when, to his great astonishment, he saw
the hand appear once more with the handkerchief in it,
but without the ring which a moment since had made it
such a conspicuous mark for his eyes.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_116" id="Page_116">[116]</a></span></p>

<p>"Our fine gentleman is becoming frightened," he
thought, watching the hand until it dropped the handkerchief
back into the hat. "One does not take off a ring in
a company like this without a good reason." And
he threw a quick glance at the man he considered his
rival in the detective business.</p>

<p>But that worthy was busily engaged in stroking his chin
in a feeling way, strongly suggestive of a Fledgerby-like
interest in his absent whisker; and well versed as
was Mr. Byrd in the ways of his fellow-detectives, he
found it impossible to tell whether the significant action
he had just remarked had escaped the attention of
this man or not. Confused if not confounded, he turned
back to the coroner, in a maze of new sensations, among
which a growing hope that his own former suspicions had
been of a wholly presumptuous character, rose predominant.</p>

<p>He found that functionary preparing to make a remark.</p>

<p>"Gentlemen," said he; "you have listened to the
testimony of Mrs. Clemmens' most confidential friend,
and heard such explanations as she had to give, of
the special fears which Mrs. Clemmens acknowledges herself
to have entertained in regard to her personal safety.
Now, while duly impressing upon you the necessity of not
laying too much stress upon the secret apprehensions of
a woman living a life of loneliness and seclusion, I still
consider it my duty to lay before you another bit of the
widow's writing, in which&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>Here he was interrupted by the appearance at his side
of a man with a telegram in his hand. In the pause
which followed his reading of the same, Mr. Byrd, with
that sudden impulse of interference which comes upon us
all at certain junctures, tore out a leaf from his memorandum-book,
and wrote upon it some half dozen or
so words indicative of the advisability of examining the
proprietor of the Eastern Hotel as to the name and
quality of the several guests entertained by him on the
day of the murder; and having signed this communication
with his initial letters H. B., looked about for a
messenger to carry it to the coroner. He found one in
the person of a small boy, who was pressing with all his
might against his back, and having despatched him with
the note, regained his old position at the window, and
proceeded to watch, with a growing interest in the drama
before him, the result of his interference upon the
coroner.</p>

<p>He had not long to wait. The boy had no sooner
shown himself at the door with the note, than Dr.
Tredwell laid down the telegram he was perusing and
took this new communication. With a slight smile Mr.
Byrd was not slow in attributing to its true source,
he read the note through, then turned to the officer
at his side and gave him some command that sent him
from the room. He then took up the slip he was on the
point of presenting to the jury at the time he was
first interrupted, and continuing his remarks in reference
to it, said quietly:<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_118" id="Page_118">[118]</a></span></p>

<p>"Gentlemen, this paper which I here pass over to you,
was found by me in the recess of Mrs. Clemmens' desk at
the time I examined it for the address of Miss Firman.
It was in an envelope that had never been sealed, and
was, if I may use the expression, tucked away under a pile
of old receipts. The writing is similar to that used
in the letter you have just read, and the signature attached
to it is 'Mary Ann Clemmens.' Will Mr. Black
of the jury read aloud the words he will there find
written?"</p>

<p>Mr. Black, in whose hand the paper then rested,
looked up with a flush, and slowly, if not painfully, complied:</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p>"I desire"&mdash;such was the language of the writing before him&mdash;"that
in case of any sudden or violent death on my part, the authorities
should inquire into the possible culpability of a gentleman living
in Toledo, Ohio, known by the name of Gouverneur Hildreth. He is
a man of no principle, and my distinct conviction is, that if such a
death should occur to me, it will be entirely due to his efforts to gain
possession of property which cannot be at his full disposal until my
death.</p>

<div class='sig'>
"<p class="smcap">Mary Ann Clemmens</p>,<p> Sibley, NY.</p>"<br />
</div></div>

<p>"A serious charge!" quoth a juryman, breaking the
universal silence occasioned by this communication from
the dead.</p>

<p>"I should think so," echoed the burly man in front of
Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>But Mr. Byrd himself and the quiet man who leaned so
stiffly and abstractedly against the wall, said nothing. Perhaps
they found themselves sufficiently engaged in watching<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_119" id="Page_119">[119]</a></span>
that half-seen elbow, which since the reading of this
last slip of paper had ceased all movement and remained
as stationary as though it had been paralyzed.</p>

<p>"A charge which, as yet, is nothing but a charge," observed
the coroner. "But evidence is not wanting," he
went on, "that Mr. Hildreth is not at home at this present
time, but is somewhere in this region, as will be seen
by the following telegram from the superintendent of the
Toledo police." And he held up to view, not the telegram
he had just received, but another which he had
taken from among the papers on the table before him:</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p>"Party mentioned not in Toledo. Left for the East on midnight
train of Wednesday the 27th inst. When last heard from was in Albany.
He has been living fast, and is well known to be in pecuniary
difficulties, necessitating a large and immediate amount of money.
Further particulars by letter.</p></div>

<p>"That, gentlemen, I received last night. To-day,"
he continued, taking up the telegram that had just come
in, "the following arrives:</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p>"Fresh advices. Man you are in search of talked of suicide at
his club the other night. Seemed in a desperate way, and said that
if something did not soon happen he should be a lost man. Horse-flesh
and unfortunate speculations have ruined him. They say it will
take all he will ultimately receive to pay his debts.</p></div>

<p>"And below:</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p>"Suspected that he has been in your town."</p></div>

<p>A crisis was approaching round the corner. This, to
the skilled eyes of Mr. Byrd, was no longer doubtful.
Even if he had not observed the wondering glances cast<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_120" id="Page_120">[120]</a></span>
in that direction by persons who could see the owner of
that now immovable elbow, he would have been assured
that all was not right, by the alert expression which had
now taken the place of the stolid and indifferent look
which had hitherto characterized the face of the man he
believed to be a detective.</p>

<p>A panther about to spring could not have looked more
threatening, and the wonder was, that there were no more
to observe this exciting by-play. Yet the panther did
not spring, and the inquiry went on.</p>

<p>"The witness I now propose to call," announced the
coroner, after a somewhat trying delay, "is the proprietor
of the Eastern Hotel. Ah, here he is. Mr. Symonds,
have you brought your register for the past week?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir," answered the new-comer, with a good deal
of flurry in his manner and an embarrassed look about
him, which convinced Mr. Byrd that the words in regard
to whose origin he had been so doubtful that morning,
had been real words and no dream.</p>

<p>"Very well, then, submit it, if you please, to the jury,
and tell us in the meantime whether you have entertained
at your house this week any guest who professed to come
from Toledo?"</p>

<p>"I don't know. I don't remember any such," began
the witness, in a stammering sort of way. "We have
always a great many men from the West stopping at our
house, but I don't recollect any special one who registered
himself as coming from Toledo."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_121" id="Page_121">[121]</a></span></p>

<p>"You, however, always expect your guests to put their
names in your book?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir."</p>

<p>There was something in the troubled look of the man
which aroused the suspicion of the coroner, and he was
about to address him with another question when one of
the jury, who was looking over the register, spoke up and
asked:</p>

<p>"Who is this Clement Smith who writes himself down
here as coming from Toledo?"</p>

<p>"Smith?&mdash;Smith?" repeated Symonds, going up to
the juryman and looking over his shoulder at the book.
"Oh, yes, the gentleman who came yesterday. He&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>But at this moment a slight disturbance occurring in
the other room, the witness paused and looked about him
with that same embarrassed look before noted. "He is
at the hotel now," he added, with an attempt at ease,
transparent as it was futile.</p>

<p>The disturbance to which I have alluded was of a
peculiar kind. It was occasioned by the thick-set man
making the spring which, for some minutes, he had evidently
been meditating. It was not a tragic leap, however, but
a decidedly comic one, and had for its end and aim the
recovery of a handkerchief which he had taken from his
pocket at the moment when the witness uttered the name
of Smith, and, by a useless flourish in opening it, flirted
from his hand to the floor. At least, so the amused
throng interpreted the sudden dive which he made, and<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_122" id="Page_122">[122]</a></span>
the heedless haste that caused him to trip over the gentleman's
hat that stood on the floor, causing it to fall and
another handkerchief to tumble out. But Mr. Byrd, who
had a detective's insight into the whole matter, saw
something more than appeared in the profuse apologies
which the thick-set man made, and the hurried manner
in which he gathered up the handkerchiefs and stood
looking at them before returning one to his pocket and
the other to its place in the gentleman's hat. Nor was
Mr. Byrd at all astonished to observe that the stand
which his fellow-detective took, upon resettling himself,
was much nearer the unseen gentleman than before, or
that in replacing the hat, he had taken pains to put it so
far to one side that the gentleman would be obliged to
rise and come around the corner in order to obtain it.
The drift of the questions propounded to the witness at
this moment opened his eyes too clearly for him to fail
any longer to understand the situation.</p>

<p>"Now at the hotel?" the coroner was repeating.
"And came yesterday? Why, then, did you look so embarrassed
when I mentioned his name?"</p>

<p>"Oh&mdash;well&mdash;ah," stammered the man, "because he was
there once before, though his name is not registered but
once in the book."</p>

<p>"He was? And on what day?"</p>

<p>"On Tuesday," asserted the man, with the sudden decision
of one who sees it is useless to attempt to keep
silence.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_123" id="Page_123">[123]</a></span></p>

<p>"The day of the murder?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir."</p>

<p>"And why is his name not on the book at that time if
he came to your house and put up?"</p>

<p>"Because he did not put up; he merely called in, as it
were, and did not take a meal or hire a room."</p>

<p>"How did you know, then, that he was there? Did
you see him or talk to him?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir."</p>

<p>"And what did you say?"</p>

<p>"He asked me for directions to a certain house, and I
gave them."</p>

<p>"Whose house?"</p>

<p>"The Widow Clemmens', sir."</p>

<p>Ah, light at last! The long-sought-for witness had
been found! Coroner and jury brightened visibly, while
the assembled crowd gave vent to a deep murmur, that
must have sounded like a knell of doom&mdash;in one pair of
ears, at least.</p>

<p>"He asked you for directions to the house of Widow
Clemmens. At what time was this?"</p>

<p>"At about half-past eleven in the morning."</p>

<p>The very hour!</p>

<p>"And did he leave then?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir; after taking a glass of brandy."</p>

<p>"And did you not see him again?"</p>

<p>"Not till yesterday, sir."</p>

<p>"Ah, and at what time did you see him yesterday?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_124" id="Page_124">[124]</a></span></p>

<p>"At bedtime, sir. He came with other arrivals on the
five o'clock train; but I was away all the afternoon and
did not see him till I went into the bar-room in the
evening."</p>

<p>"Well, and what passed between you then?"</p>

<p>"Not much, sir. I asked if he was going to stay with
us, and when he said 'Yes,' I inquired if he had registered
his name. He replied 'No.' At which I pointed
to the book, and he wrote his name down and then went
up-stairs with me to his room."</p>

<p>"And is that all? Did you say nothing beyond what
you have mentioned? ask him no questions or make no
allusions to the murder?"</p>

<p>"Well, sir, I did make some attempt that way, for I
was curious to know what took him to the Widow Clemmens'
house, but he snubbed me so quickly, I concluded
to hold my tongue and not trouble myself any further
about the matter."</p>

<p>"And do you mean to say you haven't told anyone
that an unknown man had been at your house on the
morning of the murder inquiring after the widow?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir. I am a poor man, and believe in keeping
out of all sort of messes. Policy demands that much of
me, gentlemen."</p>

<p>The look he received from the coroner may have convinced
him that policy can be carried too far.</p>

<p>"And now," said Dr. Tredwell, "what sort of a man is
this Clement Smith?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_125" id="Page_125">[125]</a></span></p>

<p>"He is a gentleman, sir, and not at all the sort of person
with whom you would be likely to connect any unpleasant
suspicion."</p>

<p>The coroner surveyed the hotel-keeper somewhat
sternly.</p>

<p>"We are not talking about suspicions!" he cried;
then, in a different tone, repeated: "This gentleman, you
say, is still at your house?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir, or was at breakfast-time. I have not seen
him since."</p>

<p>"We will have to call Mr. Smith as a witness," declared
the coroner, turning to the officer at his side. "Go and
see if you cannot bring him as soon as you did Mr.
Symonds."</p>

<p>But here a voice spoke up full and loud from the other
room.</p>

<p>"It is not necessary, sir. A witness you will consider
more desirable than he is in the building." And the
thick-set man showed himself for an instant to the coroner,
then walking back, deliberately laid his hand on the
elbow which for so long a time had been the centre of
Mr. Byrd's wondering conjectures.</p>

<p>In an instant the fine, gentlemanly figure of the stranger,
whom he had seen the night before in the bar-room, appeared
with a bound from beyond the jamb, and pausing
excitedly before the man, now fully discovered to all
around as a detective, asked him, in shaking tones of
suppressed terror or rage, what it was he meant.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_126" id="Page_126">[126]</a></span></p>

<p>"I will tell you," was the ready assurance, "if you will
step out here in view of the coroner and jury."</p>

<p>With a glance that for some reason disturbed Mr. Byrd
in his newly acquired complacency, the gentleman stalked
hurriedly forward and took his stand in the door-way
leading into the room occupied by the persons mentioned.</p>

<p>"Now," he cried, "what have you to say?"</p>

<p>But the detective, who had advanced behind him, still
refrained from replying, though he gave a quick look at
the coroner, which led that functionary to glance at the
hotel-keeper and instantly ask:</p>

<p>"You know this gentleman?"</p>

<p>"It is Mr. Clement Smith."</p>

<p>A flush so violent and profuse, that even Mr. Byrd
could see it from his stand outside the window, inundated
for an instant the face and neck of the gentleman, but
was followed by no words, though the detective at his
side waited for an instant before saying:</p>

<p>"I think you are mistaken; I should call him now Mr.
Gouverneur Hildreth!"</p>

<p>With a start and a face grown as suddenly white as it
had but an instant before been red, the gentleman turned
and surveyed the detective from head to foot, saying, in
a tone of mock politeness:</p>

<p>"And why, if you please? I have never been introduced
to you that I remember."</p>

<p>"No," rejoined the detective, taking from his pocket
the handkerchief which he had previously put there, and<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_127" id="Page_127">[127]</a></span>
presenting it to the other with a bow, "but I have read
the monogram upon your handkerchief and it happens to
be&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>"Enough!" interrupted the other, in a stern if not
disdainful voice. "I see I have been the victim of
espionage." And stepping into the other room, he walked
haughtily up to the coroner and exclaimed: "I am
Gouverneur Hildreth, and I come from Toledo. Now,
what is it you have to say to me?"</p>

</body>