<body>
<p>THE town of Sibley was in a state of excitement.
About the court-house especially the crowd was
great and the interest manifested intense. The Grand
Jury was in session, and the case of the Widow Clemmens
was before it.</p>

<p>As all the proceedings of this body are private, the
suspense of those interested in the issue was naturally
very great. The name of the man lastly suspected of the
crime had transpired, and both Hildreth and Mansell
had their partisans, though the mystery surrounding the
latter made his friends less forward in asserting his innocence
than those of the more thoroughly understood Hildreth.
Indeed, the ignorance felt on all sides as to the
express reasons for associating the name of Mrs. Clemmens'
nephew with his aunt's murder added much to the
significance of the hour. Conjectures were plenty and
the wonder great, but the causes why this man, or any
other, should lie under a suspicion equal to that raised
against Hildreth at the inquest was a mystery that none
could solve.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_300" id="Page_300">[300]</a></span></p>

<p>But what is the curiosity of the rabble to us? Our interest
is in a little room far removed from this scene of
excitement, where the young daughter of Professor
Darling kneels by the side of Imogene Dare, striving by
caress and entreaty to win a word from her lips or a
glance from her heavy eyes.</p>

<p>"Imogene," she pleaded,&mdash;"Imogene, what is this
terrible grief? Why did you have to go to the court-house
this morning with papa, and why have you been
almost dead with terror and misery ever since you got
back? Tell me, or I shall perish of mere fright. For
weeks now, ever since you were so good as to help me
with my wedding-clothes, I have seen that something
dreadful was weighing upon your mind, but this which
you are suffering now is awful; this I cannot bear. Cannot
you speak dear? Words will do you good."</p>

<p>"Words!"</p>

<p>Oh, the despair, the bitterness of that single exclamation!
Miss Darling drew back in dismay. As if released,
Imogene rose to her feet and surveyed the sweet and ingenuous
countenance uplifted to her own, with a look of
faint recognition of the womanly sympathy it conveyed.</p>

<p>"Helen," she resumed, "you are happy. Don't stay
here with me, but go where there are cheerfulness and
hope."</p>

<p>"But I cannot while you suffer so. I love you,
Imogene. Would you drive me away from your side
when you are so unhappy? You don't care for me as I
do for you or you could not do it."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_301" id="Page_301">[301]</a></span></p>

<p>"Helen!" The deep tone made the sympathetic little
bride-elect quiver. "Helen, some griefs are best
borne alone. Only a few hours now and I shall know
the worst. Leave me."</p>

<p>But the gentle little creature was not to be driven away.
She only clung the closer and pleaded the more earnestly:</p>

<p>"Tell me, tell me!"</p>

<p>The reiteration of this request was too much for the
pallid woman before her. Laying her two hands on the
shoulders of this child, she drew back and looked her earnestly
in the face.</p>

<p>"Helen," she cried, "what do you know of earthly
anguish? A petted child, the favorite of happy fortune,
you have been kept from evil as from a blight. None of
the annoyances of life have been allowed to enter
your path, much less its griefs and sins. Terror with you
is but a name, remorse an unknown sensation. Even
your love has no depths in it such as suffering gives. Yet,
since you do love, and love well, perhaps you can understand
something of what a human soul can endure who
sees its only hope and only love tottering above a gulf
too horrible for words to describe&mdash;a gulf, too, which her
own hand&mdash;&mdash; But no, I cannot tell you. I overrated
my strength. I&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>She sank back, but the next moment started again to
her feet: a servant had opened the door.</p>

<p>"What is it!" she exclaimed; "speak, tell me."</p>

<p>"Only a gentleman to see you, miss."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_302" id="Page_302">[302]</a></span></p>

<p>"Only a&mdash;&mdash;" But she stopped in that vain repetition
of the girl's simple words, and looked at her as if she
would force from her lips the name she had not the courage
to demand; but, failing to obtain it, turned away to
the glass, where she quietly smoothed her hair and adjusted
the lace at her throat, and then catching sight of
the tear-stained face of Helen, stooped and gave her a
kiss, after which she moved mechanically to the door and
went down those broad flights, one after one, till she came
to the parlor, when she went in and encountered&mdash;Mr.
Orcutt.</p>

<p>A glance at his face told her all she wanted to know.</p>

<p>"Ah!" she gasped, "it is then&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>"Mansell!"</p>

<p>It was five minutes later. Imogene leaned against the
window where she had withdrawn herself at the utterance
of that one word. Mr. Orcutt stood a couple of paces
behind her.</p>

<p>"Imogene," said he, "there is a question I would like
to have you answer."</p>

<p>The feverish agitation expressed in his tone made her
look around.</p>

<p>"Put it," she mechanically replied.</p>

<p>But he did not find it easy to do this, while her eyes
rested upon him in such despair. He felt, however, that
the doubt in his mind must be satisfied at all hazards; so
choking down an emotion that was almost as boundless as
her own, he ventured to ask:<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_303" id="Page_303">[303]</a></span></p>

<p>"Is it among the possibilities that you could ever
again contemplate giving yourself in marriage to Craik
Mansell, no matter what the issue of the coming trial may
be?"</p>

<p>A shudder quick and powerful as that which follows the
withdrawal of a dart from an agonizing wound shook her
whole frame for a moment, but she answered, steadily:</p>

<p>"No; how can you ask, Mr. Orcutt?"</p>

<p>A gleam of relief shot across his somewhat haggard
features.</p>

<p>"Then," said he, "it will be no treason in me to assure
you that never has my love been greater for you than today.
That to save you from the pain which you are suffering,
I would sacrifice everything, even my pride. If,
therefore, there is any kindness I can show you, any deed
I can perform for your sake, I am ready to attempt it,
Imogene.</p>

<p>"Would you&mdash;" she hesitated, but gathered courage
as she met his eye&mdash;"would you be willing to go to him
with a message from me?"</p>

<p>His glance fell and his lips took a line that startled
Imogene, but his answer, though given with bitterness
was encouraging.</p>

<p>"Yes," he returned; "even that."</p>

<p>"Then," she cried, "tell him that to save the innocent,
I had to betray the guilty, but in doing this I did not
spare myself; that whatever his doom may be, I shall
share it, even though it be that of death."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_304" id="Page_304">[304]</a></span></p>

<p>"Imogene!"</p>

<p>"Will you tell him?" she asked.</p>

<p>But he would not have been a man, much less a lover,
if he could answer that question now. Seizing her by the
arm, he looked her wildly in the face.</p>

<p>"Do you mean to kill yourself?" he demanded.</p>

<p>"I feel I shall not live," she gasped, while her hand
went involuntarily to her heart.</p>

<p>He gazed at her in horror.</p>

<p>"And if he is cleared?" he hoarsely ejaculated.</p>

<p>"I&mdash;I shall try to endure my fate."</p>

<p>He gave her another long, long look.</p>

<p>"So this is the alternative you give me?" he bitterly
exclaimed. "I must either save this man or see you
perish. Well," he declared, after a few minutes' further
contemplation of her face, "I will save this man&mdash;that is,
if he will allow me to do so."</p>

<p>A flash of joy such as he had not perceived on her
countenance for weeks transformed its marble-like severity
into something of its pristine beauty.</p>

<p>"And you will take him my message also?" she cried.</p>

<p>But to this he shook his head.</p>

<p>"If I am to approach him as a lawyer willing to undertake
his cause, don't you see I can give him no such
message as that?"</p>

<p>"Ah, yes, yes. But you can tell him Imogene Dare
has risked her own life and happiness to save the innocent."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_305" id="Page_305">[305]</a></span></p>

<p>"I will tell him whatever I can to show your pity and
your misery."</p>

<p>And she had to content herself with this. In the light
of the new hope that was thus unexpectedly held out to
her, it did not seem so difficult. Giving Mr. Orcutt her
hand, she endeavored to thank him, but the reaction from
her long suspense was too much, and, for the first time
in her brave young life, Imogene lost consciousness and
fainted quite away.</p>

</body>