<body>
<p>A &nbsp;&nbsp;DAY had passed. Mr. Byrd, who no longer had
any reason to doubt that he was upon the trail of
the real assailant of the Widow Clemmens, had resolved
upon a third visit to the woods, this time with the
definite object of picking up any clew, however trifling,
in support of the fact that Craik Mansell had passed
through the glade behind his aunt's house.</p>

<p>The sky, when he left the hotel, was one vast field of
blue; but by the time he reached the terminus of the
car-route, and stepped out upon the road leading to the
woods, dark clouds had overcast the sun, and a cool
wind replaced the quiet zephyrs which had all day
fanned the brilliant autumn foliage.</p>

<p>He did not realize the condition of the atmosphere,
however, and proceeded on his way, thinking more of the
person he had just perceived issuing from the door-way of
Professor Darling's lofty mansion, than of the low mutterings
of distant thunder that now and then disturbed
the silence of the woods, or of the ominous, brazen tint
which was slowly settling over the huge bank of cloud<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_206" id="Page_206">[206]</a></span>
that filled the northern sky. For that person was Miss
Dare, and her presence here, or anywhere near him, at
this time, must of necessity, awaken a most painful train
of thought.</p>

<p>But, though unmindful of the storm, he was dimly
conscious of the darkness that was settling about him.
Quicker and quicker grew his pace, and at last he almost
broke into a run as the heavy pall of a large black cloud
swept up over the zenith, and wiped from the heavens
the last remnant of blue sky. One drop fell, then another,
then a slow, heavy patter, that bent double the
leaves they fell upon, as if a shower of lead had
descended upon the heavily writhing forest. The wind
had risen, too, and the vast aisles of that clear and
beautiful wood thundered with the swaying of boughs,
and the crash here and there of an old and falling limb.
But the lightning delayed.</p>

<p>The blindest or most abstracted man could be ignorant
no longer of what all this turmoil meant. Stopping in
the path along which he had been speeding, Mr. Byrd
glanced before him and behind, in a momentary calculation
of distances, and deciding he could not regain the
terminus before the storm burst, pushed on toward the
hut.</p>

<p>He reached it just as the first flash of lightning darted
down through the heavy darkness, and was about to
fling himself against the door, when something&mdash;was it
the touch of an invisible hand, or the crash of awful<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_207" id="Page_207">[207]</a></span>
thunder which at this instant plowed up the silence of
the forest and woke a pandemonium of echoes about his
head?&mdash;stopped him.</p>

<p>He never knew. He only realized that he shuddered
and drew back, with a feeling of great disinclination to
enter the low building before him, alone; and that presently
taking advantage of another loud crash of falling
boughs, he crept around the corner of the hut, and satisfied
his doubts by looking into the small, square window
opening to the west.</p>

<p>He found there was ample reason for all the hesitation
he had felt. A man was sitting there, who, at the first
glimpse, appeared to him to be none other than Craik
Mansell. But reason soon assured him this could not be,
though the shape, the attitude&mdash;that old attitude of
despair which he remembered so well&mdash;was so startlingly
like that of the man whose name was uppermost in his
thoughts, that he recoiled in spite of himself.</p>

<p>A second flash swept blinding through the wood. Mr.
Byrd advanced his head and took another glance at the
stranger. It <i>was</i> Mr. Mansell. No other man would sit
so quiet and unmoved during the rush and clatter of a
terrible storm.</p>

<p>Look! not a hair of his head has stirred, not a movement
has taken place in the hands clasped so convulsively
beneath his brow. He is an image, a stone, and
would not hear though the roof fell in.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd himself forgot the storm, and only queried<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_208" id="Page_208">[208]</a></span>
what his duty was in this strange and surprising emergency.</p>

<p>But before he could come to any definite conclusion,
he was subjected to a new sensation. A stir that was not
the result of the wind or the rain had taken place in the
forest before him. A something&mdash;he could not tell what&mdash;was
advancing upon him from the path he had himself
travelled so short a time before, and its step, if step it
were, shook him with a vague apprehension that made
him dread to lift his eyes. But he conquered the unmanly
instinct, and merely taking the precaution to step
somewhat further back from view, looked in the direction
of his fears, and saw a tall, firmly-built woman, whose
grandly poised head, held high, in defiance of the gale,
the lightning, and the rain, proclaimed her to be none
other than Imogene Dare.</p>

<p>It was a juxtaposition of mental, moral, and physical
forces that almost took Mr. Byrd's breath away. He had
no doubt whom she had come to see, or to what sort of a
tryst he was about to be made an unwilling witness. But
he could not have moved if the blast then surging through
the trees had uprooted the huge pine behind which he
had involuntarily drawn at the first impression he had
received of her approach. He must watch that white
face of hers slowly evolve itself from the surrounding
darkness, and he must be present when the dreadful bolt
swept down from heaven, if only to see her eyes in the
flare of its ghostly flame.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_209" id="Page_209">[209]</a></span></p>

<p>It came while she was crossing the glade. Fierce,
blinding, more vivid and searching than at any time
before, it flashed down through the cringing boughs, and,
like a mantle of fire, enveloped her form, throwing out
its every outline, and making of the strong and beautiful
face an electric vision which Mr. Byrd was never able to
forget.</p>

<p>A sudden swoop of wind followed, flinging her almost
to the ground, but Mr. Byrd knew from that moment that
neither wind nor lightning, not even the fear of death,
would stop this woman if once she was determined upon
any course.</p>

<p>Dreading the next few moments inexpressibly, yet
forcing himself, as a detective, to remain at his post,
though every instinct of his nature rebelled, Mr. Byrd
drew himself up against the side of the low hut and
listened. Her voice, rising between the mutterings of
thunder and the roar of the ceaseless gale, was plainly to
be heard.</p>

<p>"Craik Mansell," said she, in a strained tone, that was
not without its severity, "you sent for me, and I am
here."</p>

<p>Ah, this was her mode of greeting, was it? Mr. Byrd
felt his breath come easier, and listened for the reply
with intensest interest.</p>

<p>But it did not come. The low rumbling of the thunder
went on, and the wind howled through the gruesome
forest, but the man she had addressed did not speak.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_210" id="Page_210">[210]</a></span></p>

<p>"Craik!" Her voice still came from the door-way,
where she had seemingly taken her stand. "Do you not
hear me?"</p>

<p>A stifled groan was the sole reply.</p>

<p>She appeared to take one step forward, but no more.</p>

<p>"I can understand," said she, and Mr. Byrd had no
difficulty in hearing her words, though the turmoil overhead
was almost deafening, "why the restlessness of
despair should drive you into seeking this interview. I
have longed to see you too, if only to tell you that I wish
heaven's thunderbolts had fallen upon us both on that
day when we sat and talked of our future prospects
and&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>A lurid flash cut short her words. Strange and awesome
sounds awoke in the air above, and the next moment
a great branch fell crashing down upon the roof of the
hut, beating in one corner, and sliding thence heavily to
the ground, where it lay with all its quivering leaves
uppermost, not two feet from the door-way where this
woman stood.</p>

<p>A shriek like that of a lost spirit went up from her
lips.</p>

<p>"I thought the vengeance of heaven had fallen!" she
gasped. And for a moment not a sound was heard within
or without the hut, save that low flutter of the disturbed
leaves. "It is not to be," she then whispered, with a
return of her old calmness, that was worse than any
shriek. "Murder is not to be avenged thus." Then,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_211" id="Page_211">[211]</a></span>
shortly: "A dark and hideous line of blood is drawn
between you and me, Craik Mansell. <i>I</i> cannot pass it,
and you must not, forever and forever and forever. But
that does not hinder me from wishing to help you, and so
I ask, in all sincerity, What is it you want me to do for
you to-day?"</p>

<p>A response came this time.</p>

<p>"Show me how to escape the consequences of my
act," were his words, uttered in a low and muffled voice.</p>

<p>She did not answer at once.</p>

<p>"Are you threatened?" she inquired at last, in a tone
that proved she had drawn one step nearer to the bowed
form and hidden face of the person she addressed.</p>

<p>"My conscience threatens me," was the almost stifled
reply.</p>

<p>Again that heavy silence, all the more impressive that
the moments before had been so prolific of heaven's most
terrible noises.</p>

<p>"You suffer because another man is forced to endure
suspicion for a crime he never committed," she whisperingly
exclaimed.</p>

<p>Only a groan answered her; and the moments grew
heavier and heavier, more and more oppressive, though
the hitherto accompanying outcries of the forest had
ceased, and a faint lightening of the heavy darkness was
taking place overhead. Mr. Byrd felt the pressure of the
situation so powerfully, he drew near to the window he
had hitherto avoided, and looked in. She was standing a<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_212" id="Page_212">[212]</a></span>
foot behind the crouched figure of the man, between
whom and herself she had avowed a line of blood to be
drawn. As he looked she spoke.</p>

<p>"Craik," said she, and the deathless yearning of love
spoke in her voice at last, "there is but one thing to do.
Expiate your guilt by acknowledging it. Save the innocent
from unmerited suspicion, and trust to the mercy
of God. It is the only advice I can give you. I know
no other road to peace. If I did&mdash;&mdash;" She stopped,
choked by the terror of her own thoughts. "Craik," she
murmured, at last, "on the day I hear of your having
made this confession, I vow to take an oath of celibacy
for life. It is the only recompense I can offer for the
misery and sin into which our mutual mad ambitions have
plunged you."</p>

<p>And subduing with a look of inexpressible anguish an
evident longing to lay her hand in final caress upon that
bended head, she gave him one parting look, and then,
with a quick shudder, hurried away, and buried herself
amid the darkness of the wet and shivering woods.</p>

</body>