<body>
<p>THE next morning Mr. Ferris was startled by the
appearance in his office of Mr. Byrd, looking
wretchedly anxious and ill.</p>

<p>"I have come," said the detective, "to ask you what
you think of Mr. Hildreth's prospects. Have you made
up your mind to have him arrested for this crime?"</p>

<p>"Yes," was the reply. "The evidence against him is
purely circumstantial, but it is very strong; and if no
fresh developments occur, I think there can be no doubt
about my duty. Each and every fact that comes to light
only strengthens the case against him. When he came to
be examined last night, a ring was found on his person,
which he acknowledged to having worn on the day of the
murder."</p>

<p>"He took it off during the inquest," murmured Mr.
Byrd; "I saw him."</p>

<p>"It is said by Hickory&mdash;the somewhat questionable
cognomen of your fellow-detective from New York&mdash;that
the young man manifested the most intense uneasiness
during the whole inquiry. That in fact his attention<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_163" id="Page_163">[163]</a></span>
was first drawn to him by the many tokens which he
gave of suppressed agitation and alarm. Indeed, Mr.
Hickory at one time thought he should be obliged to
speak to this stranger in order to prevent a scene. Once
Mr. Hildreth got up as if to go, and, indeed, if he had
been less hemmed in by the crowd, there is every reason
to believe he would have attempted an escape."</p>

<p>"Is this Hickory a man of good judgment?" inquired
Mr. Byrd, anxiously.</p>

<p>"Why, yes, I should say so. He seems to understand
his business. The way he procured us the testimony of
Mr. Hildreth was certainly satisfactory."</p>

<p>"I wish that, without his knowing it, I could hear him
give his opinion of this matter," intimated the other.</p>

<p>"Well, you can," rejoined Mr. Ferris, after a quick
and comprehensive survey of Mr. Byrd's countenance.
"I am expecting him here any moment, and if you see fit
to sit down behind that screen, you can, without the least
difficulty to yourself or him, hear all he has to impart."</p>

<p>"I will, then," the detective declared, a gloomy frown
suddenly corrugating his brow; and he stepped across to
the screen which had been indicated to him, and quietly
withdrew from view.</p>

<p>He had scarcely done this, when a short, quick step
was heard at the door, and a wide-awake voice called out,
cheerily:</p>

<p>"Are you alone, sir?"</p>

<p>"Ah!" ejaculated Mr. Ferris, "come in, come in. I<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_164" id="Page_164">[164]</a></span>
have been awaiting you for some minutes," he declared,
ignoring the look which the man threw hastily around the
room. "Any news this morning?"</p>

<p>"No," returned the other, in a tone of complete self-satisfaction.
"We've caged the bird and mustn't expect
much more in the way of news. I'm on my way to
Albany now, to pick up such facts about him as may be
lying around there loose, and shall be ready to start for
Toledo any day next week that you may think proper."</p>

<p>"You are, then, convinced that Mr. Hildreth is undeniably
the guilty party in this case?" exclaimed the
District Attorney, taking a whiff at his cigar.</p>

<p>"Convinced? That is a strong word, sir. A detective
is never convinced," protested the man. "He leaves
that for the judge and jury. But if you ask me if there is
any doubt about the direction in which all the circumstantial
evidence in this case points, I must retort by
asking you for a clue, or the tag-end of a clue, guiding
me elsewhere. I know," he went on, with the volubility
of a man whose work is done, and who feels he has the
right to a momentary indulgence in conversation, "that
it is not an agreeable thing to subject a gentleman like
Mr. Hildreth to the shame of a public arrest. But facts
are not partial, sir; and the gentleman has no more rights
in law than the coarsest fellow that we take up for butchering
his mother. But you know all this without my telling
you, and I only mention it to excuse any obstinacy I may
have manifested on the subject. He is mightily cut up<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_165" id="Page_165">[165]</a></span>
about it," he again proceeded, as he found Mr. Ferris
forebore to reply. "I am told he didn't sleep a wink
all night, but spent his time alternately in pacing the floor
like a caged lion, and in a wild sort of stupor that had
something of the hint of madness in it. 'If my grandfather
had only known!' was the burden of his song;
and when anyone approached him he either told them to
keep their eyes off him, or else buried his face in his
hands with an entreaty for them not to disturb the last
hours of a dying man. He evidently has no hope of
escaping the indignity of arrest, and as soon as it was
light enough for him to see, he asked for paper and pencil.
They were brought him, and a man stood over
him while he wrote. It proved to be a letter to his
sisters enjoining them to believe in his innocence, and
wound up with what was very much like an attempt at a
will. Altogether, it looks as if he meditated suicide, and
we have been careful to take from him every possible
means for his effecting his release in this way, as well as
set a strict though secret watch upon him."</p>

<p>A slight noise took place behind the screen, which at
any other time Mr. Hickory would have been the first to
notice and inquire into. As it was, it had only the effect
of unconsciously severing his train of thought and starting
him alertly to his feet.</p>

<p>"Well," said he, facing the District Attorney with
cheerful vivacity, "any orders?"</p>

<p>"No," responded Mr. Ferris. "A run down to Albany<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_166" id="Page_166">[166]</a></span>
seems to be the best thing for you at present. On your
return we will consult again."</p>

<p>"Very well, sir. I shall not be absent more than two
days, and, in the meantime, you will let me know if anything important occurs?" And, handing over his new
address, Hickory speedily took his leave.</p>

<p>"Well, Byrd, what do you think of him?"</p>

<p>For reply, Mr. Byrd stepped forth and took his stand
before the District Attorney.</p>

<p>"Has Coroner Tredwell informed you," said he, "that
the superintendent has left it to my discretion to interfere
in this matter if I thought that by so doing I could
further the ends of justice?"</p>

<p>"Yes," was the language of the quick, short nod he received.</p>

<p>"Very well," continued the other, "you will pardon
me, then, if I ask you to convey to Mr. Hildreth the following
message: That if he is guiltless of this crime he
need have no fear of the results of the arrest to which he
may be subjected; that a man has interested himself in
this matter who pledges his word not to rest till he has
discovered the guilty party and freed the innocent from
suspicion."</p>

<p>"What!" cried Mr. Ferris, astonished at the severe
but determined bearing of the young man who, up to
this time, he had only seen under his lighter and more
indifferent aspect. "You don't agree with this fellow,
then, in his conclusions regarding Mr. Hildreth?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_167" id="Page_167">[167]</a></span></p>

<p>"No, sir. Hickory, as I judge, is an egotist. He discovered
Mr. Hildreth and brought him to the notice of
the jury, therefore Mr. Hildreth is guilty."</p>

<p>"And you?"</p>

<p>"I am open to doubt about it. Not that I would
acknowledge it to anyone but you, sir."</p>

<p>"Why?"</p>

<p>"Because if I work in this case at all, or make any
efforts to follow up the clue which I believe myself to
have received, it must be done secretly, and without
raising the suspicion of anyone in this town. I am not
in a position, as you know, to work openly, even if it
were advisable to do so, which it certainly is not.
What I do must be accomplished under cover, and
I ask you to help me in my self-imposed and by no
means agreeable task, by trusting me to pursue my
inquiries alone, until such time as I assure myself beyond
a doubt that my own convictions are just, and
that the man who murdered Mrs. Clemmens is someone entirely separated from Mr. Hildreth and any
interests that he represents."</p>

<p>"You are, then, going to take up this case?"</p>

<p>The answer given was short, but it meant the deliberate
shivering of the fairest dream of love that had ever
visited Mr. Byrd's imagination.</p>

<p>"I am."</p>

</body>