<body>
<p>THE paper mill of Harrison, Goodman &amp; Chamberlain
was situated in one of the main thoroughfares
of Buffalo. It was a large but otherwise unpretentious
building, and gave employment to a vast number of
operatives, mostly female.</p>

<p>Some of these latter might have been surprised, and
possibly a little fluttered, one evening, at seeing a well-dressed
young gentleman standing at the gate as they
came forth, gazing with languid interest from one face to
another, as if he were on the look-out for some one of
their number.</p>

<p>But they would have been yet more astonished could
they have seen him still lingering after the last one had
passed, watching with unabated patience the opening and
shutting of the small side door devoted to the use of the
firm, and such employ&eacute;s as had seats in the office. It
was Mr. Byrd, and his purpose there at this time of day
was to see and review the whole rank and file of the
young men employed in the place, in the hope of being
able to identify the nephew of Mrs. Clemmens by his supposed
resemblance to the person whose character of face
and form had been so minutely described to him.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_176" id="Page_176">[176]</a></span></p>

<p>For Mr. Byrd was a just man and a thoughtful one, and
knowing this identification to be the key-stone of his
lately formed theory, desired it to be complete and of no
doubtful character. He accordingly held fast to his
position, watching and waiting, seemingly in vain, for the
dark, powerful face and the sturdily-built frame of the
gentleman whose likeness he had attempted to draw in
conjunction with that of Miss Dare. But, though he saw
many men of all sorts and kinds issue from one door or
another of this vast building, not one of them struck him
with that sudden and unmistakable sense of familiarity
which he had a right to expect, and he was just beginning
to doubt if the whole framework of his elaborately-formed
theory was not destined to fall into ruins, when the small
door, already alluded to, opened once more, and a couple
of gentlemen came out.</p>

<p>The appearance of one of them gave Mr. Byrd a start.
He was young, powerfully built, wore a large mustache,
and had a complexion of unusual swarthiness. There
was character, too, in his face, though not so much as Mr.
Byrd had expected to see in the nephew of Mrs. Clemmens.
Still, people differ about degrees of expression,
and to his informant this face might have appeared strong.
He was dressed in a business suit, and was without an
overcoat&mdash;two facts that made it difficult for Mr. Byrd
to get any assistance from the cut and color of his
clothes.</p>

<p>But there was enough in the general style and bearing<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_177" id="Page_177">[177]</a></span>
of this person to make Mr. Byrd anxious to know his
name. He, therefore, took it upon himself to follow
him&mdash;a proceeding which brought him to the corner just
in time to see the two gentlemen separate, and the especial
one in whom he was interested, step into a car.</p>

<p>He succeeded in getting a seat in the same car, and for
some blocks had the pleasure of watching the back of the
supposed Mansell, as he stood on the front platform with
the driver. Then others got in, and the detective's view
was obstructed, and presently&mdash;he never could tell how
it was&mdash;he lost track of the person he was shadowing,
and when the chance came for another sight of the driver
and platform, the young man was gone.</p>

<p>Annoyed beyond expression, Mr. Byrd went to a hotel,
and next day sent to the mill and procured the address
of Mr. Mansell. Going to the place named, he found it
to be a very respectable boarding-house, and, chancing
upon a time when more or less of the rooms were empty,
succeeded in procuring for himself an apartment there.</p>

<p>So here he was a fixture in the house supposed by him
to hold the murderer of Mrs. Clemmens. When the
time for dinner came, and with it an opportunity for settling
the vexed question of Mr. Mansell's identity not
only with the man in the Syracuse depot, but with the
person who had eluded his pursuit the day before, something
of the excitement of the hunter in view of his game
seized upon this hitherto imperturbable detective, and it
was with difficulty he could sustain his usual <i>r&ocirc;le</i> of fashionable
indifference.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_178" id="Page_178">[178]</a></span></p>

<p>He arrived at the table before any of the other boarders,
and presently a goodly array of amiable matrons, old
and young gentlemen, and pretty girls came filing into the
room, and finally&mdash;yes, finally&mdash;the gentleman whom he
had followed from the mill the day before, and whom he
now had no hesitation in fixing upon as Mr. Mansell.</p>

<p>But the satisfaction occasioned by the settlement of
this perplexing question was dampened somewhat by a
sudden and uneasy sense of being himself at a disadvantage.
Why he should feel thus he did not know. Perhaps
the almost imperceptible change which took place
in that gentleman's face as their eyes first met, may have
caused the unlooked-for sensation; though why Mr.
Mansell should change at the sight of one who must have
been a perfect stranger to him, was more than Mr. Byrd
could understand. It was enough that the latter felt he
had made a mistake in not having donned a disguise
before entering this house, and that, oppressed by the
idea, he withdrew his attention from the man he had
come to watch, and fixed it upon more immediate and
personal matters.</p>

<p>The meal was half over. Mr. Byrd who, as a stranger
of more than ordinary good looks and prepossessing manners,
had been placed by the obliging landlady between
her own daughter and a lady of doubtful attractions, was
endeavoring to improve his advantages and make himself
as agreeable as possible to both of his neighbors,
when he heard a lady near him say aloud, "You are late,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_179" id="Page_179">[179]</a></span>
Mr. Mansell," and, looking up in his amazement, saw
entering the door&mdash;&mdash; Well, in the presence of the real
owner of this name, he wondered he ever could have
fixed upon the other man as the original of the person
that had been described to him. The strong face, the
sombre expression, the herculean frame, were unique,
and in the comparison which they inevitably called forth,
made all other men in the room look dwarfed if not
actually commonplace.</p>

<p>Greatly surprised at this new turn of affairs, and satisfied
that he at last had before him the man who had confronted
Miss Dare in the Syracuse depot, he turned his
attention back to the ladies. He, however, took care to
keep one ear open on the side of the new-comer, in the
hope of gleaning from his style and manner of conversation
some notion of his disposition and nature.</p>

<p>But Craik Mansell was at no time a talkative man, and
at this especial period of his career was less inclined than
ever to enter into the trivial debates or good-natured
repartee that was the staple of conversation at Mrs.
Hart's table.</p>

<p>So Mr. Byrd's wishes in this regard were foiled. He
succeeded, however, in assuring himself by a square look,
into the other's face, that to whatever temptation this man
may have succumbed, or of whatever crime he may have
been guilty, he was by nature neither cold, cruel, nor
treacherous, and that the deadly blow, if dealt by him,
was the offspring of some sudden impulse or violent<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_180" id="Page_180">[180]</a></span>
ebullition of temper, and was being repented of with
every breath he drew.</p>

<p>But this discovery, though it modified Mr. Byrd's own
sense of personal revolt against the man, could not influence
him in the discharge of his duty, which was to save
another of less interesting and perhaps less valuable traits
of character from the consequences of a crime he had
never committed. It was, therefore, no more than just,
that, upon withdrawing from the table, he should endeavor
to put himself in the way of settling that second question,
upon whose answer in the affirmative depended the rightful
establishment of his secret suspicions.</p>

<p>That was, whether this young man was at or near the
house of his aunt at the time when she was assaulted.</p>

<p>Mrs. Hart's parlors were always thrown open to her
boarders in the evening.</p>

<p>There, at any time from seven to ten, you might meet
a merry crowd of young people intent upon enjoying
themselves, and usually highly successful in their endeavors
to do so. Into this throng Mr. Byrd accordingly
insinuated himself, and being of the sort to win instant
social recognition, soon found he had but to make his
choice in order to win for himself that <i>t&ecirc;te-&agrave;-t&ecirc;te</i> conversation
from which he hoped so much. He consequently
surveyed the company with a critical eye, and soon made
up his mind as to which lady was the most affable in her
manners and the least likely to meet his advances with
haughty reserve, and having won an introduction to her,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_181" id="Page_181">[181]</a></span>
sat down at her side with the stern determination of
making her talk about Mr. Mansell.</p>

<p>"You have a very charming company here," he remarked;
"the house seems to be filled with a most
cheerful class of people."</p>

<p>"Yes," was the not-unlooked-for reply. "We are all
merry enough if we except Mr. Mansell. But, of course,
there is excuse for him. No one expects him to join in
our sports."</p>

<p>"Mr. Mansell? the gentleman who came in late to
supper?" repeated Mr. Byrd, with no suggestion of the
secret satisfaction he felt at the immediate success of his
scheme.</p>

<p>"Yes, he is in great trouble, you know; is the nephew
of the woman who was killed a few days ago at Sibley,
don't you remember? The widow lady who was struck
on the head by a man of the name of Hildreth, and who
died after uttering something about a ring, supposed by
many to be an attempt on her part to describe the murderer?"</p>

<p>"Yes," was the slow, almost languid, response; "and
a dreadful thing, too; quite horrifying in its nature. And
so this Mr. Mansell is her nephew?" he suggestively repeated.
"Odd! I suppose he has told you all about the
affair?"</p>

<p>"He? Mercy! I don't suppose you could get him to
say anything about it to save your life. He isn't of the
talking sort. Besides, I don't believe he knows any more
about it than you or I. He hasn't been to Sibley."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_182" id="Page_182">[182]</a></span></p>

<p>"Didn't he go to the funeral?"</p>

<p>"No; he said he was too ill; and indeed he was shut
up one whole day with a terrible sore throat. He is the
heir, too, of all her savings, they say; but he won't go
to Sibley. Some folks think it is queer, but I&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>Here her eyes wandered and her almost serious look
vanished in a somewhat coquettish smile. Following her
gaze with his own, Mr. Byrd perceived a gentleman approaching.
It was the one he had first taken for Mr.
Mansell.</p>

<p>"Beg pardon," was the somewhat abrupt salutation
with which this person advanced. "But they are proposing
a game in the next room, and Miss Clayton's assistance
is considered absolutely indispensable."</p>

<p>"Mr. Brown, first allow me to make you acquainted
with Mr. Byrd," said the light-hearted damsel, with a
gracious inclination. "As you are both strangers, it is
well for you to know each other, especially as I expect
you to join in our games."</p>

<p>"Thank you," protested Mr. Brown, "but I don't
play games." Then seeing the deep bow of acquiescence
which Mr. Byrd was making, added, with what appeared
to be a touch of jealousy, "Except under strong provocation,"
and holding out his arm, offered to escort the
young lady into the next room.</p>

<p>With an apologetic glance at Mr. Byrd, she accepted
the attention proffered her, and speedily vanished into
the midst of the laughing group that awaited her.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_183" id="Page_183">[183]</a></span></p>

<p>Mr. Byrd found himself alone.</p>

<p>"Check number one," thought he; and he bestowed
anything but an amiable benediction upon the man who
had interrupted him in the midst of so promising a conversation.</p>

<p>His next move was in the direction of the landlady's
daughter, who, being somewhat shy, favored a retired
nook behind the piano. They had been neighbors at
table, and he could at once address her without fear of
seeming obtrusive.</p>

<p>"I do not see here the dark young gentleman whom
you call Mr. Mansell?" he remarked, inquiringly.</p>

<p>"Oh, no; he is in trouble. A near relative of his was
murdered in cold blood the other day, and under the
most aggravating circumstances. Haven't you heard
about it? She was a Mrs. Clemmens, and lived in Sibley.
It was in all the papers."</p>

<p>"Ah, yes; I remember about it very well. And so he
is her nephew," he went on, recklessly repeating himself
in his determination to elicit all he could from these
young and thoughtless misses. "A peculiar-looking
young man; has the air of thoroughly understanding
himself."</p>

<p>"Yes, he is very smart, they say."</p>

<p>"Does he never talk?"</p>

<p>"Oh, yes; that is, he used to; but, since his aunt's
death, we don't expect it. He is very much interested in
machinery, and has invented something&mdash;&mdash;"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_184" id="Page_184">[184]</a></span></p>

<p>"Oh, Clara, you are not going to sit here," interposed
the reproachful voice of a saucy-eyed maiden, who at this
moment peeped around the corner of the piano. "We
want all the recruits we can get," she cried, with a sudden
blush, as she encountered the glance of Mr. Byrd.
"Do come, and bring the gentleman too." And she
slipped away to join that very Mr. Brown who, by his importunities,
had been the occasion of the former interruption
from which Mr. Byrd had suffered.</p>

<p>"That man and I will quarrel yet," was the mental
exclamation with which the detective rose. "Shall we
join your friends?" asked he, assuming an unconcern he
was far from feeling.</p>

<p>"Yes, if you please," was the somewhat timid, though
evidently pleased, reply.</p>

<p>And Mr. Byrd noted down in his own mind check
number two.</p>

<p>The game was a protracted one. Twice did he think
to escape from the merry crowd he had entered, and
twice did he fail to do so. The indefatigable Brown
would not let him slip, and it was only by a positive
exertion of his will that he finally succeeded in withdrawing
himself.</p>

<p>"I wish to have a word with your mother," he explained,
in reply to the look of protest with which Miss
Hart honored his departure. "I hear she retires early;
so you will excuse me if I leave somewhat abruptly."</p>

<p>And to Mrs. Hart's apartment he at once proceeded,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_185" id="Page_185">[185]</a></span>
and, by dint of his easy assurance, soon succeeded in
leading her, as he had already done the rest, into a discussion
of the one topic for which he had an interest.
He had not time, however, to glean much from her, for,
just as she was making the admission that Mr. Mansell
had not been home at the time of the murder, a knock
was heard at the door, and, with an affable bow and a
short, quick stare of surprise at Mr. Byrd, the ubiquitous
Mr. Brown stepped in and took a seat on the sofa, with
every appearance of intending to make a call.</p>

<p>At this third check, Mr. Byrd was more than annoyed.
Rising, however, with the most amiable courtesy, he
bowed his acknowledgments to the landlady, and, without
heeding her pressing invitation to remain and make the
acquaintance of Mr. Brown, left the room and betook
himself back to the parlors.</p>

<p>He was just one minute too late. The last of the
boarders had gone up-stairs, and only an empty room met
his eyes.</p>

<p>He at once ascended to his own apartment. It was on
the fourth floor. There were many other rooms on this
floor, and for a moment he could not remember which
was his own door. At last, however, he felt sure it was
the third one from the stairs, and, going to it, gave a
short knock in case of mistake, and, hearing no reply,
opened it and went in.</p>

<p>The first glance assured him that his recollection had
played him false, and that he was in the wrong room.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_186" id="Page_186">[186]</a></span>
The second, that he was in that of Mr. Mansell. The
sight of the small model of a delicate and intricate
machine that stood in full view on a table before him
would have been sufficient assurance of this fact, even if
the inventor himself had been absent. But he was there.
Seated at a table, with his back to the door, and his head
bowed forward on his arms, he presented such a picture
of misery or despair, that Mr. Byrd felt his sympathies
touched in spite of himself, and hastily stumbling backward,
was about to confusedly withdraw, when a doubt
struck him as to the condition of the deathly, still, and
somewhat pallid figure before him, and, stepping hurriedly
forward, he spoke the young man's name, and, failing to
elicit a response, laid his hand on his shoulder, with an
apology for disturbing him, and an inquiry as to how he
felt.</p>

<p>The touch acted where the voice had failed. Leaping
from his partly recumbent position, Craik Mansell faced
the intruder with indignant inquiry written in every line
of his white and determined face.</p>

<p>"To what do I owe this intrusion?" he cried, his
nostrils expanding and contracting with an anger that
proved the violence of his nature when aroused.</p>

<p>"First, to my carelessness," responded Mr. Byrd;
"and, secondly&mdash;&mdash;" But there he paused, for the first
time in his life, perhaps, absolutely robbed of speech.
His eye had fallen upon a picture that the other held
clutched in his vigorous right hand. It was a photograph<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_187" id="Page_187">[187]</a></span>
of Imogene Dare, and it was made conspicuous by
two heavy black lines which had been relentlessy drawn
across the face in the form of a cross. "Secondly," he
went on, after a moment, resolutely tearing his gaze away
from this startling and suggestive object, "to my fears.
I thought you looked ill, and could not forbear making
an effort to reassure myself that all was right."</p>

<p>"Thank you," ejaculated the other, in a heavy weariful
tone. "I am perfectly well." And with a short bow
he partially turned his back, with a distinct intimation
that he desired to be left alone.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd could not resist this appeal. Glad as he
would have been for even a moment's conversation with
this man, he was, perhaps unfortunately, too much of a
gentleman to press himself forward against the expressed
wishes even of a suspected criminal. He accordingly
withdrew to the door, and was about to open it and go
out, when it was flung violently forward, and the ever-obtrusive
Brown stepped in.</p>

<p>This second intrusion was more than unhappy Mr.
Mansell could stand. Striding passionately forward, he
met the unblushing Brown at full tilt, and angrily pointing
to the door, asked if it was not the custom of gentlemen
to knock before entering the room of strangers.</p>

<p>"I beg pardon," said the other, backing across the
threshold, with a profuse display of confusion. "I had
no idea of its being a stranger's room. I thought it was
my own. I&mdash;I was sure that my door was the third from<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_188" id="Page_188">[188]</a></span>
the stairs. Excuse me, excuse me." And he bustled
noisily out.</p>

<p>This precise reproduction of his own train of thought
and action confounded Mr. Byrd.</p>

<p>Turning with a deprecatory glance to the perplexed
and angry occupant of the room, he said something
about not knowing the person who had just left them;
and then, conscious that a further contemplation of the
stern and suffering countenance before him would unnerve
him for the duty he had to perform, hurriedly
withdrew.</p>

</body>