<body>
<p>THE excitement induced by the foregoing announcement
had, in a degree, subsided. The coroner,
who appeared to be as much startled as anyone at the
result of the day's proceedings, had manifested his desire
of putting certain questions to the young man, and had
begun by such inquiries into his antecedents, and his
connection with Mrs. Clemmens, as elicited the most
complete corroboration of all Miss Firman's statements.</p>

<p>An investigation into his motives for coming East at
this time next followed, in the course of which he acknowledged
that he undertook the journey solely for the
purpose of seeing Mrs. Clemmens. And when asked
why he wished to see her at this time, admitted, with
some manifestation of shame, that he desired to see for
himself whether she was really in as strong and healthy a
condition as he had always been told; his pecuniary embarrassments
being such that he could not prevent his
mind from dwelling upon possibilities which, under any
other circumstances, he would have been ashamed to
consider.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_129" id="Page_129">[129]</a></span></p>

<p>"And did you see Mrs. Clemmens?" the coroner inquired.</p>

<p>"Yes, sir; I did."</p>

<p>"When?"</p>

<p>"On Tuesday, sir; about noon."</p>

<p>The answer was given almost with bravado, and the silence
among the various auditors became intense.</p>

<p>"You admit, then, that you were in the widow's house
the morning she was murdered, and that you had an interview
with her a few minutes before the fatal blow was
struck?"</p>

<p>"I do."</p>

<p>There was doggedness in the tone, and doggedness in
the look that accompanied it. The coroner moved a little
forward in his chair and uttered his next question with
deep gravity.</p>

<p>"Did you approach the widow's house by the road and
enter into it by means of the front door overlooking
the lane?"</p>

<p>"I did."</p>

<p>"And did you meet no one in the lane, or see no one
at the windows of any of the houses as you came by?"</p>

<p>"No, sir."</p>

<p>"How long did you stay in this house, and what was
the result of the interview which you had with Mrs. Clemmens?"</p>

<p>"I stayed, perhaps, ten minutes, and I learned nothing
from Mrs. Clemmens, save that she was well and hearty,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_130" id="Page_130">[130]</a></span>
and likely to live out her threescore years and ten for
all hint that her conversation or appearance gave me."</p>

<p>He spoke almost with a tone of resentment; his eyes
glowed darkly, and a thrill of horror sped through the
room as if they felt that the murderer himself stood before
them.</p>

<p>"You will tell me what was said in this interview, if
you please, and whether the widow knew who you were;
and, if so, whether any words of anger passed between
you?"</p>

<p>The face of the young man burned, and he looked at
the coroner and then at the jurymen, as if he would like
to challenge the whole crew, but the color that showed in
his face was the flush of shame, or, so thought Mr. Byrd,
and in his reply, when he gave it, there was a bitterness
of self-scorn that reminded the detective more of the mortification
of a gentleman caught in an act of meanness
than the secret alarm of a man who had been beguiled
into committing a dastardly crime.</p>

<p>"Mrs. Clemmens was evidently a woman of some
spirit," said he, forcing out his words with sullen desperation.
"She may have used sharp language; I believe
indeed she did; but she did not know who I was,
for&mdash;for I pretended to be a seller of patent medicine,
warranted to cure all ills, and she told me she had no ills,
and&mdash;and&mdash;Do you want a man to disgrace himself in
your presence?" he suddenly flashed out, cringing under
the gaze of the many curious and unsympathetic eyes
fixed upon him.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_131" id="Page_131">[131]</a></span></p>

<p>But the coroner, with a sudden assumption of severity,
pardonable, perhaps, in a man with a case of such importance
on his hands, recommended the witness to be calm
and not to allow any small feelings of personal mortification
to interfere with a testimony of so much evident
value. And without waiting for the witness to recover
himself, asked again:</p>

<p>"What did the widow say, and with what words did
you leave?"</p>

<p>"The widow said she abominated drugs, and never
took them. I replied that she made a great mistake, if
she had any ailments. Upon which she retorted that
she had no ailment, and politely showed me the door.
I do not remember that anything else passed between
us."</p>

<p>His tone, which had been shrill and high, dropped at
the final sentence, and by the nervous workings of his
lips, Mr. Byrd perceived that he dreaded the next question.
The persons grouped around him evidently dreaded
it too.</p>

<p>But it was less searching than they expected, and
proved that the coroner preferred to approach his point
by circuitous rather than direct means.</p>

<p>"In what room was the conversation held, and by what
door did you come in and go out?"</p>

<p>"I came in by the front door, and we stood in that
room"&mdash;pointing to the sitting-room from which he had
just issued.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_132" id="Page_132">[132]</a></span></p>

<p>"Stood! Did you not sit down?"</p>

<p>"No."</p>

<p>"Stood all the time, and in that room to which you
have just pointed?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>The coroner drew a deep breath, and looked at the
witness long and searchingly. Mr. Hildreth's way of
uttering this word had been anything but pleasant, and
consequently anything but satisfactory. A low murmur
began to eddy through the rooms.</p>

<p>"Gentlemen, silence!" commanded the coroner, venting
in this injunction some of the uncomfortable emotion
with which he was evidently surcharged; for his next
words were spoken in a comparatively quiet voice, though
the fixed severity of his eye could have given the witness
but little encouragement.</p>

<p>"You say," he declared, "that in coming through the
lane you encountered no one. Was this equally true of
your return?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir; I believe so. I don't remember. I was not
looking up," was the slightly confused reply.</p>

<p>"You passed, however, through the lane, and entered
the main street by the usual path?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"And where did you go then?"</p>

<p>"To the depot."</p>

<p>"Ah!"</p>

<p>"I wished to leave the town. I had done with it."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_133" id="Page_133">[133]</a></span></p>

<p>"And did you do so, Mr. Hildreth?"</p>

<p>"I did."</p>

<p>"Where did you go?"</p>

<p>"To Albany, where I had left my traps."</p>

<p>"You took the noon train, then?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir."</p>

<p>"Which leaves precisely five minutes after twelve?"</p>

<p>"I suppose so."</p>

<p>"Took it without stopping anywhere on the way?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir."</p>

<p>"Did you buy a ticket at the office?"</p>

<p>"No, sir."</p>

<p>"Why?"</p>

<p>"I did not have time."</p>

<p>"Ah, the train was at the station, then?"</p>

<p>Mr. Hildreth did not reply; he had evidently been
driven almost to the end of his patience, or possibly of
his courage, by this quick fire of small questions.</p>

<p>The coroner saw this and pressed his advantage.</p>

<p>"Was the train at the station or not when you arrived
there, Mr. Hildreth?"</p>

<p>"I do not see why it can interest you to know," the
witness retorted, with a flash of somewhat natural anger;
"but since you insist, I will tell you that it was just going
out, and that I had to run to reach it, and only got a foothold
upon the platform of the rear car at the risk of my
life."</p>

<p>He looked as if he wished it had been at the cost of his<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_134" id="Page_134">[134]</a></span>
life, and compressed his lips and moved restlessly from
side to side as if the battery of eyes levelled upon his face
were so many points of red-hot steel burning into his
brain.</p>

<p>But the coroner, intent upon his duty, released not one
jot of the steady hold he had taken upon his victim.</p>

<p>"Mr. Hildreth," said he, "your position as the only
person who acknowledges himself to have been in this
house during the half-hour that preceded the assault,
makes everything you can tell us in reference to your
visit of the highest importance. Was the widow alone,
do you think, or did you see anything&mdash;pause now and
consider well&mdash;<i>anything</i> that would lead you to suppose
there was anyone beside her and yourself in the house?"</p>

<p>It was the suggestion of a just man, and Mr. Byrd
looked to see the witness grasp with all the energy of
despair at the prospect of release it held out. But Mr.
Hildreth either felt his cause beyond the reach of any
such assistance, or his understanding was so dulled by
misery he could not see the advantage of acknowledging
the presence of a third party in the cottage. Giving a
dreary shake of the head, he slowly answered:</p>

<p>"There may have been somebody else in the house, I
don't know; but if so, I didn't hear him or see him. I
thought we were alone."</p>

<p>The frankness with which he made the admission was
in his favor, but the quick and overpowering flush that
rose to his face the moment he had given utterance to it,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_135" id="Page_135">[135]</a></span>
betrayed so unmistakable a consciousness of what the
admission implied that the effect was immediately reversed.
Seeing that he had lost rather than gained in the
opinions of the merciless inquisitors about him, he
went back to his old bravado, and haughtily lifted his
head.</p>

<p>"One question more," resumed the coroner. "You
have said that Mrs. Clemmens was a spirited woman.
Now, what made you think so? Any expression of
annoyance on her part at the interruption in her work
which your errand had caused her, or merely the expression
of her face and the general way she had of
speaking?"</p>

<p>"The latter, I think, though she did use a harsh word
or two when she showed me the door."</p>

<p>"And raised her voice?"</p>

<p>"Yes, yes."</p>

<p>"Mr. Hildreth," intimated the coroner, rising, "will
you be kind enough to step with me into the adjoining
room?"</p>

<p>With a look of wonder not unmixed with alarm,
the young man prepared to comply.</p>

<p>"I should like the attention of the jury," Dr. Tredwell
signified as he passed through the door.</p>

<p>There was no need to give them this hint. Not a man
of them but was already on his feet in eager curiosity
as to what their presiding officer was about to do.</p>

<p>"I wish you to tell me now," the coroner demanded of<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_136" id="Page_136">[136]</a></span>
Mr. Hildreth, as they paused in the centre of the sitting-room,
"where it was you stood during your interview
with Mrs. Clemmens, and, if possible, take the very
position now which you held at that time."</p>

<p>"There are too many persons here," the witness
objected, visibly rebelling at a request of which he could
not guess the full significance.</p>

<p>"The people present will step back," declared the
coroner; "you will have no trouble in taking your stand
on the spot you occupied the other day."</p>

<p>"Here, then!" exclaimed the young man, taking
a position near the centre of the room.</p>

<p>"And the widow?"</p>

<p>"Stood there."</p>

<p>"Facing you?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"I see," intimated the coroner, pointing toward the
windows. "Her back was to the yard while you stood
with your face toward it." Then with a quick motion,
summoning the witness back into the other room, asked,
amid the breathless attention of the crowd, whom this bit
of by-play had wrought up to expectation: "Did you
observe anyone go around to the back door while you
stood there, and go away again without attempting to
knock?"</p>

<p>Mr. Hildreth knitted his brow and seemed to think.</p>

<p>"Answer," persisted the coroner; "it is not a question
that requires thought."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_137" id="Page_137">[137]</a></span></p>

<p>"Well, then, I did not," cried the witness, looking the
other directly in the eye, with the first gleam of real
manly feeling which he had yet displayed.</p>

<p>"You did not see a tramp come into the yard, walk
around to the kitchen door, wait a moment as if hesitating
whether he would rap, and then turn and come back
again without doing so?"</p>

<p>"No, sir."</p>

<p>The coroner drew a piece of paper before him and began
figuring on it. Earnestly, almost wildly, the young
man watched him, drawing a deep breath and turning
quite pale as the other paused and looked up.</p>

<p>"Yet," affirmed the coroner, as if no delay had
occurred since he received his last answer, "such a person
did approach the house while you were in it, and if
you had stood where you say, you must have seen him."</p>

<p>It was a vital thrust, a relentless presentation of fact,
and as such shook the witness out of his lately acquired
composure. Glancing hastily about, he sought the assistance
of someone both capable and willing to advise
him in this crisis, but seeing no one, he made a vigorous
effort and called together his own faculties.</p>

<p>"Sir," he protested, a tremor of undisguised anxiety
finding way into his voice, "I do not see how you make
that all out. What proof have you that this tramp of
which you speak came to the house while I was in it?
Could he not have come before? Or, what was better,
could he not have come after?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_138" id="Page_138">[138]</a></span></p>

<p>The ringing tone with which the last question was put
startled everybody. No such sounds had issued from his
lips before. Had he caught a glimpse of hope, or was
he driven to an extremity in his defence that forced him
to assert himself? The eyes of Miss Firman and of
a few other women began to soften, and even the face of
Mr. Byrd betrayed that a change was on the verge of taking
place in his feelings.</p>

<p>But the coroner's look and tone dashed cold water on
this young and tender growth of sympathy. Passing over
to the witness the paper on which he had been scribbling,
he explained with dry significance:</p>

<p>"It is only a matter of subtraction and addition, Mr.
Hildreth. You have said that upon quitting this house
you went directly to the depot, where you arrived barely
in time to jump on the train as it was leaving the station.
Now, to walk from this place to the depot at any pace
<ins title="Transcriber's Note: original reads 'yon'">you</ins> would be likely to use, would occupy&mdash;well, let us
say seven minutes. At two minutes before twelve, then,
you were still in this house. Well!" he ejaculated, interrupting
himself as the other opened his lips, "have you
anything to say?"</p>

<p>"No," was the dejected and hesitating reply.</p>

<p>The coroner at once resumed:</p>

<p>"But at five minutes before twelve, Mr. Hildreth, the
tramp walked into the widow's yard. Now, allowing only
two minutes for your interview with that lady, the conclusion
remains that you were in the house when he came<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_139" id="Page_139">[139]</a></span>
up to it. Yet you declare that, although you stood in full
view of the yard, you did not see him."</p>

<p>"You figure closer than an astronomer calculating an
eclipse," burst from the young man's lips in a flash of that
resolution which had for the last few minutes animated
him. "How do you know your witnesses have been so
exact to a second when they say this and that of the goings
and comings you are pleased to put into an arithmetical
problem. A minute or two one way or the other
would make a sad discrepancy in your calculations, Mr.
Coroner."</p>

<p>"I know it," assented Dr. Tredwell, quietly ignoring
the other's heat; "but if the jury will remember, there were
four witnesses, at least, who testified to the striking of the
town clock just as the tramp finally issued from the lane,
and one witness, of well-known accuracy in matters of
detail, who declared on oath that she had just dropped
her eyes from that same clock when she observed the
tramp go into the widow's gate, and that it was five minutes
to twelve exactly. But, lest I do seem too nice
in my calculations," the coroner inexorably pursued, "I
will take the trouble of putting it another way. At what
time did you leave the hotel, Mr. Hildreth?"</p>

<p>"I don't know," was the testy response.</p>

<p>"Well, I can tell you," the coroner assured him. "It
was about twenty minutes to twelve, or possibly earlier,
but no later. My reason for saying this," he went on,
drawing once more before him the fatal sheet of paper,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_140" id="Page_140">[140]</a></span>
"is that Mrs. Dayton's children next door were out playing
in front of this house for some few minutes previous
to the time the tramp came into the lane. As you did
not see them you must have arrived here before they began
their game, and that, at the least calculation, would
make the time as early as a quarter to twelve."</p>

<p>"Well," the fierce looks of the other seemed to say,
"and what if it was?"</p>

<p>"Mr. Hildreth," continued the coroner, "if you were
in this house at a quarter to twelve and did not leave it
till two minutes before, and the interview was as you say
a mere interchange of a dozen words or so, that could not
possibly have occupied more than three minutes; <i>where
were you during all the rest of the time</i> that must have
elapsed after you finished your interview and the moment
you left the house?"</p>

<p>It was a knock-down question. This aristocratic-looking
young gentleman who had hitherto held himself erect before
them, <ins title="Transcriber's Note: original reads 'notwithstandingt he'">notwithstanding the</ins> humiliating nature of the
inquiries which had been propounded to him, cringed
visibly and bowed his head as if a stroke of vital force
had descended upon it. Bringing his fist down on the
table near which he stood, he seemed to utter a muttered
curse, while the veins swelled on his forehead so powerfully
that more than one person present dropped their
eyes from a spectacle which bore so distinctly the stamp
of guilt.</p>

<p>"You have not answered," intimated the coroner, after
a moment of silent waiting.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_141" id="Page_141">[141]</a></span></p>

<p>"No!" was the loud reply, uttered with a force that
startled all present, and made the more timid gaze with
some apprehension at his suddenly antagonistic attitude.
"It is not pleasant for a gentleman"&mdash;he emphasized the
word bitterly&mdash;"for a <i>gentleman</i> to acknowledge himself
caught at a time like this in a decided equivocation. But
you have cornered me fairly and squarely, and I am bound
to tell the truth. Gentlemen, I did not leave the widow's
house as immediately as I said. I stayed for fully five
minutes or so alone in the small hall that leads to the
front door. In all probability I was there when the tramp
passed by on his way to the kitchen-door, and there when
he came back again." And Mr. Hildreth fixed his eyes
on the coroner as if he dared him to push him further.</p>

<p>But Dr. Tredwell had been in his present seat before.
Merely confronting the other with that cold official gaze
which seems to act like a wall of ice between a witness
and the coroner, he said the two words: "What doing?"</p>

<p>The effect was satisfactory. Paling suddenly, Mr.
Hildreth dropped his eyes and replied humbly, though
with equal laconism, "I was thinking." But scarcely had
the words left his lips, than a fresh flame of feeling started
up within him, and looking from juryman to juryman he
passionately exclaimed: "You consider that acknowledgment
suspicious. You wonder why a man should give a
few minutes to thought after the conclusion of an interview
that terminated all hope. I wonder at it now
myself. I wonder I did not go straight out of the house<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_142" id="Page_142">[142]</a></span>
and rush headlong into any danger that promised an
immediate extinction of my life."</p>

<p>No language could have more forcibly betrayed the
real desperation of his mind at the critical moment when
the widow's life hung in the balance. He saw this, perhaps,
when it was too late, for the sweat started on his
brow, and he drew himself up like a man nerving himself
to meet a blow he no longer hoped to avert. One
further remark, however, left his lips.</p>

<p>"Whatever I did or of whatever I was thinking, one
thing I here declare to be true, and that is, that I did not
see the widow again after she left my side and went back
to her kitchen in the rear of the house. The hand that
struck her may have been lifted while I stood in the hall,
but if so, I did not know it, nor can I tell you now who
it was that killed her."</p>

<p>It was the first attempt at direct disavowal which he
had made, and it had its effect. The coroner softened
a trifle of his austerity, and the jurymen glanced at each
other relieved. But the weight of suspicion against this
young man was too heavy, and his manner had been too
unfortunate, for this effect to last long. Gladly as many
would have been to credit this denial, if only for the name
he bore and a certain fine aspect of gentlemanhood that
surrounded him in spite of his present humiliation, it was
no longer possible to do so without question, and he
seemed to feel this and do his best to accept the situation
with patience.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_143" id="Page_143">[143]</a></span></p>

<p>An inquiry which was put to him at this time by a
juryman showed the existent state of feeling against
him.</p>

<p>"May I ask," that individual dryly interrogated, "why
you came back to Sibley, after having left it?"</p>

<p>The response came clear and full. Evidently the
gravity of his position had at last awakened the latent
resources of Mr. Hildreth's mind.</p>

<p>"I heard of the death of this woman, and my surprise
caused me to return."</p>

<p>"How did you hear of it?"</p>

<p>"Through the newspapers."</p>

<p>"And you were surprised?"</p>

<p>"I was astounded; I felt as if I had received a blow
myself, and could not rest till I had come back where I
could learn the full particulars."</p>

<p>"So, then, it was curiosity that brought you to the
inquest to-day?"</p>

<p>"It was."</p>

<p>The juryman looked at him astonished; so did all the
rest. His manner was so changed, his answers so prompt
and ringing.</p>

<p>"And what was it," broke in the coroner, "that led you
to register yourself at the hotel under a false name?"</p>

<p>"I scarcely know," was the answer, given with less fire
and some show of embarrassment. "Perhaps I thought
that, under the circumstances, it would be better for me
not to use my own."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_144" id="Page_144">[144]</a></span></p>

<p>"In other words, you were afraid?" exclaimed the
coroner, with the full impressiveness of his somewhat
weighty voice and manner.</p>

<p>It was a word to make the weakest of men start. Mr.
Hildreth, who was conspicuous in his own neighborhood
for personal if not for moral courage, flushed till it
looked as if the veins would burst on his forehead, but
he made no other reply than a proud and angry look and
a short:</p>

<p>"I was not aware of fear; though, to be sure, I had no
premonition of the treatment I should be called upon to
suffer here to-day."</p>

<p>The flash told, the coroner sat as if doubtful, and
looked from man to man of the jury as if he would question
their feelings on this vital subject. Meantime the
full shame of his position settled heavier and heavier
upon Mr. Hildreth; his head fell slowly forward, and he
seemed to be asking himself how he was to meet the possibly
impending ignominy of a direct accusation. Suddenly
he drew himself erect, and a gleam shot from his eyes
that, for the first time, revealed him as a man of latent
pluck and courage.</p>

<p>"Gentlemen," he began, looking first at the coroner
and then at the jury, "you have not said you consider
me guilty of this crime, but you evidently harbor the
suspicion. I do not wonder; my own words have given
me away, and any man would find it difficult to believe
in my innocence after what has been testified to in<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_145" id="Page_145">[145]</a></span>
this place. Do not hesitate, then. The shock of finding
myself suspected of a horrible murder is passed. I am
willing to be arrested. Indeed, after what has here taken
place, I not only am willing but even anxious. I want to
be tried, if only to prove to the world my complete and
entire innocence."</p>

<p>The effect of this speech, uttered at a moment so critical,
may be easily imagined. All the impressible people
present at once signified their belief in his honesty, and
gave him looks of sympathy, if not approval; while the
cooler and possibly the more judicious of his auditors
calmly weighed these assertions against the evidence that
had been advanced, and finding the result unsatisfactory,
shook their heads as if unconvinced, and awaited further
developments.</p>

<p>They did not come. The inquiry had reached its
climax, and little, if anything, more was left to be said.
Mr. Hildreth was examined more fully, and some few of
the witnesses who had been heard in the early part of the
day were recalled, but no new facts came to light, and no
fresh inquiries were started.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd, who from the attitude of the coroner could
not fail to see Mr. Hildreth was looked upon with a suspicion
that would ultimately end in arrest, decided that
his interest in the inquest was at an end, and being greatly
fatigued, gave up his position at the window and
quietly stole away.</p>

</body>