<body>
<p>THE time is midnight, the day the same as that
which saw this irruption of Hickory into Professor
Darling's observatory; the scene that of Miss
Dare's own room in the northeast tower. She is standing
before a table with a letter in her hand and a look
upon her face that, if seen, would have added much to
the puzzlement of the detectives.</p>

<p>The letter was from Mr. Orcutt and ran thus:</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p>I have seen Mr. Mansell, and have engaged myself to undertake
his defence. When I tell you that out of the hundreds of cases I
have tried in my still short life, I have lost but a small percentage,
you will understand what this means.</p>

<p>In pursuance to your wishes, I mentioned your name to the
prisoner with an intimation that I had a message from you to deliver.
But he stopped me before I could utter a word. "I receive no communication
from Miss Dare!" he declared, and, anxious as I really
was to do your bidding, I was compelled to refrain; for his tone was
one of hatred and his look that of ineffable scorn.</p></div>

<p>This was all, but it was enough. Imogene had read
these words over three times, and now was ready to<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_314" id="Page_314">[314]</a></span>
plunge the letter into the flame of a candle to destroy it.
As it burned, her grief and indignation took words:</p>

<p>"He is alienated, completely alienated," she gasped;
"and I do not wonder. But," and here the full majesty
of her nature broke forth in one grand gesture, "he shall
hear me yet! As there is a God above, he shall hear me
yet, even if it has to be in the open court and in the
presence of judge and jury!"</p>
</body>