<body>
<p>THE crowd that congregated at the court-house the
next morning was even greater than at any previous
time. The opening speech of Mr. Orcutt had been
telegraphed all over the country, and many who had not
been specially interested in the case before felt an anxiety
to hear how he would substantiate the defence he had
so boldly and confidently put forth.</p>

<p>To the general eye, however, the appearance of the
court-room was much the same as on the previous day.
Only to the close observer was it evident that the countenances
of the several actors in this exciting drama wore a
different expression. Mr. Byrd, who by dint of the most
energetic effort had succeeded in procuring his old seat,
was one of these, and as he noted the significant change,
wished that Hickory had been at his side to note it with
him.</p>

<p>The first person he observed was, naturally, the Judge.</p>

<p>Judge Evans, who has been but barely introduced to
the reader, was a man of great moral force and discretion.
He had occupied his present position for many years, and<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_370" id="Page_370">[370]</a></span>
possessed not only the confidence but the affections of
those who came within the sphere of his jurisdiction.
The reason for this undoubtedly lay in his sympathetic
nature. While never accused of weakness, he so unmistakably
retained the feeling heart under the official ermine
that it was by no means an uncommon thing for him
to show more emotion in uttering a sentence than the
man he condemned did in listening to it.</p>

<p>His expression, then, upon this momentous morning
was of great significance to Mr. Byrd. In its hopefulness
and cheer was written the extent of the effect made upon
the unprejudiced mind by the promised defence.</p>

<p>As for Mr. Orcutt himself, no advocate could display a
more confident air or prepare to introduce his witnesses
with more dignity or quiet assurance. His self-possession
was so marked, indeed, that Mr. Byrd, who felt a sympathetic
interest in what he knew to be seething in this
man's breast, was greatly surprised, and surveyed, with a
feeling almost akin to awe, the lawyer who could so sink
all personal considerations in the cause he was trying.</p>

<p>Miss Dare, on the contrary, was in a state of nervous
agitation. Though no movement betrayed this, the very
force of the restraint she put upon herself showed the
extent of her inner excitement.</p>

<p>The prisoner alone remained unchanged. Nothing
could shake his steady soul from its composure, not the
possibility of death or the prospect of release. He was
absolutely imposing in his quiet presence, and Mr. Byrd<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_371" id="Page_371">[371]</a></span>
could not but admire the power of the man even while
recoiling from his supposed guilt.</p>

<p>The opening of the defence carried the minds of many
back to the inquest. The nice question of time was gone
into, and the moment when Mrs. Clemmens was found
lying bleeding and insensible at the foot of her dining-room
clock, fixed at three or four minutes past noon.
The next point to be ascertained was when she received
the deadly blow.</p>

<p>And here the great surprise of the defence occurred.
Mr. Orcutt rose, and in clear, firm tones said:</p>

<p>"Gouverneur Hildreth, take the stand."</p>

<p>Instantly, and before the witness could comply, Mr.
Ferris was on his feet.</p>

<p>"Who? what?" he cried.</p>

<p>"Gouverneur Hildreth," repeated Mr. Orcutt.</p>

<p>"Did you know this gentleman has already been in
custody upon suspicion of having committed the crime
for which the prisoner is now being tried?"</p>

<p>"I do," returned Mr. Orcutt, with imperturbable <i>sang
froid</i>.</p>

<p>"And is it your intention to save your client from the
gallows by putting the halter around the neck of the man
you now propose to call as a witness?"</p>

<p>"No," retorted Mr. Orcutt; "<i>I</i> do not propose to put
the halter about any man's neck. That is the proud
privilege of my learned and respected opponent."</p>

<p>With an impatient frown Mr. Ferris sat down, while<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_372" id="Page_372">[372]</a></span>
Mr. Hildreth, who had taken advantage of this short passage
of arms between the lawyers to retain his place in
the remote corner where he was more or less shielded
from the curiosity of the crowd, rose, and, with a slow
and painful movement that at once attracted attention to
his carefully bandaged throat and the general air of
debility which surrounded him, came hesitatingly forward
and took his stand in face of the judge and jury.</p>

<p>Necessarily a low murmur greeted him from the throng
of interested spectators who saw in this appearance before
them of the man who, by no more than a hair's-breadth,
had escaped occupying the position of the
prisoner, another of those dramatic incidents with which
this trial seemed fairly to bristle.</p>

<p>It was hushed by one look from the Judge, but not
before it had awakened in Mr. Hildreth's weak and
sensitive nature those old emotions of shame and rage
whose token was a flush so deep and profuse it unconsciously
repelled the gaze of all who beheld it. Immediately
Mr. Byrd, who sat with bated breath, as it were, so
intense was his excitement over the unexpected turn of
affairs, recognized the full meaning of the situation, and
awarded to Mr. Orcutt all the admiration which his
skill in bringing it about undoubtedly deserved. Indeed,
as the detective's quick glance flashed first at the
witness, cringing in his old unfortunate way before the
gaze of the crowd, and then at the prisoner sitting unmoved
and quietly disdainful in his dignity and pride,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_373" id="Page_373">[373]</a></span>
he felt that, whether Mr. Orcutt succeeded in getting
all he wished from his witness, the mere conjunction of
these two men before the jury, with the opportunity
for comparison between them which it inevitably offered,
was the master-stroke of this eminent lawyer's legal
career.</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris seemed to feel the significance of the
moment also, for his eyes fell and his brow contracted
with a sudden doubt that convinced Mr. Byrd that,
mentally, he was on the point of giving up his case.</p>

<p>The witness was at once sworn.</p>

<p>"Orcutt believes Hildreth to be the murderer, or, at
least, is willing that others should be impressed with this
belief," was the comment of Byrd to himself at this
juncture.</p>

<p>He had surprised a look which had passed between
the lawyer and Miss Dare&mdash;a look of such piercing
sarcasm and scornful inquiry that it might well arrest the
detective's attention and lead him to question the intentions
of the man who could allow such an expression
of his feelings to escape him.</p>

<p>But whether the detective was correct in his inferences,
or whether Mr. Orcutt's glance at Imogene meant no
more than the natural emotion of a man who suddenly
sees revealed to the woman he loves the face of him for
whose welfare she has expressed the greatest concern and
for whose sake, while unknown, she has consented to
make the heaviest of sacrifices, the wary lawyer was careful<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_374" id="Page_374">[374]</a></span>
to show neither scorn nor prejudice when he turned
toward the witness and began his interrogations.</p>

<p>On the contrary, his manner was highly respectful, if
not considerate, and his questions while put with such
art as to keep the jury constantly alert to the anomalous
position which the witness undoubtedly held, were of a
nature mainly to call forth the one fact for which his
testimony was presumably desired. This was, his presence
in the widow's house on the morning of the murder,
and the fact that he saw her and conversed with her and
could swear to her being alive and unhurt up to a few
minutes before noon. To be sure, the precise minute of
his leaving her in this condition Mr. Orcutt failed to
gather from the witness, but, like the coroner at the inquest,
he succeeded in eliciting enough to show that the
visit had been completed prior to the appearance of the
tramp at the widow's kitchen-door, as it had been begun
after the disappearance of the Danton children from the
front of the widow's house.</p>

<p>This fact being established and impressed upon the
jury, Mr. Orcutt with admirable judgment cut short his
own examination of the witness, and passed him over to
the District Attorney, with a grim smile, suggestive of his
late taunt, that to this gentleman belonged the special
privilege of weaving halters for the necks of unhappy
criminals.</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris who understood his adversary's tactics only
too well, but who in his anxiety for the truth could not<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_375" id="Page_375">[375]</a></span>
afford to let such an opportunity for reaching it slip by,
opened his cross-examination with great vigor.</p>

<p>The result could not but be favorable to the defence
and damaging to the prosecution. The position which
Mr. Hildreth must occupy if the prisoner was acquitted,
was patent to all understandings, making each and every
admission on his part tending to exculpate the latter, of
a manifest force and significance.</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris, however, was careful not to exceed his duty
or press his inquiries beyond due bounds. The man
they were trying was not Gouverneur Hildreth but Craik
Mansell, and to press the witness too close, was to urge
him into admissions seemingly so damaging to himself as,
in the present state of affairs, to incur the risk of distracting
attention entirely from the prisoner.</p>

<p>Mr. Hildreth's examination being at an end, Mr.
Orcutt proceeded with his case, by furnishing proof calculated
to fix the moment at which Mr. Hildreth had
made his call. This was done in much the same way as
it was at the inquest. Mrs. Clemmens' next-door neighbor,
Mrs. Danton, was summoned to the stand, and after
her her two children, the testimony of the three, taken
with Mr. Hildreth's own acknowledgments, making it
very evident to all who listened that he could not have
gone into Mrs. Clemmens' house before a quarter to
twelve.</p>

<p>The natural inference followed. Allowing the least
possible time for his interview with Mrs. Clemmens, the<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_376" id="Page_376">[376]</a></span>
moment at which the witness swore to having seen her
alive and unhurt must have been as late as ten minutes
before noon.</p>

<p>Taking pains to impress this time upon the jury, Mr.
Orcutt next proceeded to fix the moment at which the
prisoner arrived at Monteith Quarry Station. As the
fact of his having arrived in time to take the afternoon
train to Buffalo had been already proved by the prosecution,
it was manifestly necessary only to determine at
what hour the train was due, and whether it had come in
on time.</p>

<p>The hour was ascertained, by direct consultation with
the road's time-table, to be just twenty minutes past one,
and the station-master having been called to the stand,
gave it as his best knowledge and belief that the train had
been on time.</p>

<p>This, however, not being deemed explicit enough for
the purposes of the defence, there was submitted to the
jury a telegram bearing the date of that same day, and
distinctly stating that the train was on time. This was
testified to by the conductor of the train as having been
sent by him to the superintendent of the road who was
awaiting the cars at Monteith; and was received as evidence
and considered as conclusively fixing the hour at
which the prisoner arrived at the Quarry Station as
twenty minutes past one.</p>

<p>This settled, witnesses were called to testify as to the
nature of the path by which he must have travelled from<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_377" id="Page_377">[377]</a></span>
the widow's house to the station. A chart similar to that
Mr. Byrd had drawn, but more explicit and nice in its
details, was submitted to the jury by an actual surveyor
of the ground; after which, and the establishment of
other minor details not necessary to enumerate here, a
man of well-known proficiency in running and other
athletic sports, was summoned to the stand.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd, who up to this moment had shared in the
interest everywhere displayed in the defence, now felt
his attention wandering. The fact is, he had heard the
whistle of the train on which Hickory had promised to
return to Sibley, and interesting as was the testimony
given by the witness, he could not prevent his eyes from
continually turning toward the door by which he expected
Hickory to enter.</p>

<p>Strange to say, Mr. Orcutt seemed to take a like interest
in that same door, and was more than once detected
by Byrd flashing a hurried glance in its direction, as if he,
too, were on the lookout for someone.</p>

<p>Meantime the expert in running was saying:</p>

<p>"It took me one hundred and twenty minutes to go
over the ground the first time, and one hundred and
fifteen minutes the next. I gained five minutes the second
time, you see," he explained, "by knowing my ground
better and by saving my strength where it was of no avail
to attempt great speed. The last time I made the effort,
however, I lost three minutes on my former time. The
wood road which I had to take for some distance was<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_378" id="Page_378">[378]</a></span>
deep with mud, and my feet sank with every step. The
shortest time, then, which I was able to make in three
attempts, was one hundred and fifteen minutes."</p>

<p>Now, as the time between the striking of the fatal blow
and the hour at which the prisoner arrived at the Quarry
Station was only ninety minutes, a general murmur of
satisfaction followed this announcement. It was only
momentary, however, for Mr. Ferris, rising to cross-examine
the witness, curiosity prevailed over all lesser emotions,
and an immediate silence followed without the
intervention of the Court.</p>

<p>"Did you make these three runs from Mrs. Clemmens'
house to Monteith Quarry Station entirely on foot?"</p>

<p>"I did, sir."</p>

<p>"Was that necessary?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir; as far as the highway, at least. The path
through the woods is not wide enough for a horse, unless
it be for that short distance where the Foresters' Road
intervenes."</p>

<p>"And you ran there?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir, twice at full speed; the third time I had the
experience I have told you of."</p>

<p>"And how long do you think it took you to go over
that especial portion of ground?"</p>

<p>"Five minutes, maybe."</p>

<p>"And, supposing you had had a horse?"</p>

<p>"Well, sir, <i>if</i> I had had a horse, and <i>if</i> he had been
waiting there, all ready for me to jump on his back, and<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_379" id="Page_379">[379]</a></span>
<i>if</i> he had been a good runner and used to the road, I
think I could have gone over it in two minutes, if I had
not first broken my neck on some of the jagged stones
that roughen the road."</p>

<p>"In other words, you could have saved three minutes
if you had been furnished with a horse at that particular
spot?"</p>

<p>"Yes, <i>if</i>."</p>

<p>Mr. Orcutt, whose eye had been fixed upon the door at
this particular juncture, now looked back at the witness
and hurriedly rose to his feet.</p>

<p>"Has my esteemed friend any testimony on hand to
prove that the prisoner had a horse at this place? if he
has not, I object to these questions."</p>

<p>"What testimony I have to produce will come in at its
proper time," retorted Mr. Ferris. "Meanwhile, I think
I have a right to put this or any other kind of similar
question to the witness."</p>

<p>The Judge acquiescing with a nod, Mr. Orcutt sat
down.</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris went on.</p>

<p>"Did you meet anyone on the road during any of
these three runs which you made?"</p>

<p>"No, sir. That is, I met no one in the woods. There
were one or two persons on the highway the last time I
ran over it."</p>

<p>"Were they riding or walking?"</p>

<p>"Walking."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_380" id="Page_380">[380]</a></span></p>

<p>Here Mr. Orcutt interposed.</p>

<p>"Did you say that in passing over the highway you
ran?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir."</p>

<p>"Why did you do this? Had you not been told that
the prisoner was seen to be walking when he came down
the road to the station?"</p>

<p>"Yes, sir. But I was in for time, you see."</p>

<p>"And you did not make it even with that advantage?"</p>

<p>"No, sir."</p>

<p>The second expert had the same story to tell, with a
few variations. He had made one of his runs in five
minutes less than the other had done, but it was by a
great exertion that left him completely exhausted when
he arrived at the station. It was during his cross-examination
that Hickory at last came in.</p>

<p>Horace Byrd, who had been growing very impatient
during the last few minutes, happened to be looking at
the door when it opened to admit this late comer. So
was Mr. Orcutt. But Byrd did not notice this, or Hickory
either. If they had, perhaps Hickory would have
been more careful to hide his feelings. As it was, he no
sooner met his colleague's eye than he gave a quick,
despondent shake of the head in intimation that he had
<i>failed</i>.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd, who had anticipated a different result,
was greatly disappointed. His countenance fell and<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_381" id="Page_381">[381]</a></span>
he cast a glance of compassion at Miss Dare, now
flushing with a secret but slowly growing hope. The defence,
then, was good, and she ran the risk of being interrogated
again. It was a prospect from which Mr.
Byrd recoiled.</p>

<p>As soon as Hickory got the chance, he made his way
to the side of Byrd.</p>

<p>"No go," was his low but expressive salutation. "One
hundred and five minutes is the shortest time in which I
can get over the ground, and that by a deuced hard
scramble of it too."</p>

<p>"But that's five minutes' gain on the experts," Byrd
whispered.</p>

<p>"Is it? Hope I could gain something on them, but
what's five minutes' gain in an affair like this? Fifteen
is what's wanted."</p>

<p>"I know it."</p>

<p>"And fifteen I cannot make, nor ten either, unless a
pair of wings should be given me to carry me over the
river."</p>

<p>"Sure?"</p>

<p>"Sure!"</p>

<p>Here there was some commotion in their vicinity,
owing to the withdrawal of the last witness from the
stand. Hickory took advantage of the bustle to lean
over and whisper in Byrd's ear:</p>

<p>"Do you know I think I have been watched to-day.
There was a fellow concealed in Mrs. Clemmens' house,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_382" id="Page_382">[382]</a></span>
who saw me leave it, and who, I have no doubt, took
express note of the time I started. And there was another
chap hanging round the station at the quarries, whom I
am almost sure had no business there unless it was to see
at what moment I arrived. He came back to Sibley
when I did, but he telegraphed first, and it is my opinion
that Orcutt&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>Here he was greatly startled by hearing his name
spoken in a loud and commanding tone of voice. Stopping
short, he glanced up, encountered the eye of Mr.
Orcutt fixed upon him from the other side of the court-room,
and realized he was being summoned to the witness
stand.</p>

<p>"The deuce!" he murmured, with a look at Byrd to
which none but an artist could do justice.</p>


</body>