<body>
<p>THE town clock of Sibley had just struck twelve.
Court had adjourned, and Judge Evans, with
one or two of the leading lawyers of the county, stood
in the door-way of the court-house discussing in a
friendly way the eccentricities of criminals as developed
in the case then before the court. Mr. Lord had just
ventured the assertion that crime as a fine art was
happily confined to France; to which District Attorney
Ferris had replied:</p>

<p>"And why? Because atheism has not yet acquired
such a hold upon our upper classes that gentlemen
think it possible to meddle with such matters. It is
only when a student, a doctor, a lawyer, determines
to put aside from his path the secret stumbling-block<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_2" id="Page_2">[2]</a></span>
to his desires or his ambition that the true intellectual
crime is developed. That brute whom you see slouching
along over the way is the type of the average
criminal of the day."</p>

<p>And he indicated with a nod a sturdy, ill-favored man,
who, with pack on his back, was just emerging from
a grassy lane that opened out from the street directly
opposite the court-house.</p>

<p>"Such men are often seen in the dock," remarked
Mr. Orcutt, of more than local reputation as a criminal
lawyer. "And often escape the penalty of their crimes,"
he added, watching, with a curious glance, the lowering
brow and furtive look of the man who, upon perceiving
the attention he had attracted, increased his pace till he
almost broke into a run.</p>

<p>"Looks as if he had been up to mischief," observed
Judge Evans.</p>

<p>"Rather as if he had heard the sentence which was
passed upon the last tramp who paid his respects to
this town," corrected Mr. Lord.</p>

<p>"Revenons &agrave; nos moutons," resumed the District Attorney.
"Crime, as an investment, does not pay in this
country. The regular burglar leads a dog's life of it;
and when you come to the murderer, how few escape
suspicion if they do the gallows. I do not know of a case
where a murder for money has been really successful in
this region."</p>

<p>"Then you must have some pretty cute detective work<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_3" id="Page_3">[3]</a></span>
going on here," remarked a young man who had not before
spoken.</p>

<p>"No, no&mdash;nothing to brag of. But the brutes are so
clumsy&mdash;that is the word, clumsy. They don't know how
to cover up their tracks."</p>

<p>"The smart ones don't make tracks," interposed a
rough voice near them, and a large, red-haired, slightly
hump-backed man, who, from the looks of those about,
was evidently a stranger in the place, shuffled forward
from the pillar against which he had been leaning, and
took up the thread of conversation.</p>

<p>"I tell you," he continued, in a gruff tone somewhat
out of keeping with the studied abstraction of his keen,
gray eye, "that half the criminals are caught because they
do make tracks and then resort to such extraordinary
means to cover them up. The true secret of success in
this line lies in striking your blow with a weapon picked
up on the spot, and in choosing for the scene of your tragedy
a thoroughfare where, in the natural course of events,
other men will come and go and unconsciously tread out
your traces, provided you have made any. This dissipates
suspicion, or starts it in so many directions that
justice is at once confused, if not ultimately baffled.
Look at that house yonder," the stranger pursued, pointing
to a plain dwelling on the opposite corner. "While
we have been standing here, several persons of one kind
or another, and among them a pretty rough-looking tramp,
have gone into the side gate and so around to the kitchen<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_4" id="Page_4">[4]</a></span>
door and back. I don't know who lives there, but say it
is a solitary old woman above keeping help, and that an
hour from now someone, not finding her in the house,
searches through the garden and comes upon her lying
dead behind the wood-pile, struck down by her own axe.
On whom are you going to lay your hand in suspicion?
On the stranger, of course&mdash;the rough-looking tramp
that everybody thinks is ready for bloodshed at the
least provocation. But suspicion is not conviction, and I
would dare wager that no court, in face of a persistent
denial on his part that he even saw the old woman when
he went to her door, would bring in a verdict of murder
against him, even though silver from her private drawer
were found concealed upon his person. The chance that he
spoke the truth, and that she was not in the house when he
entered, and that his crime had been merely one of burglary
or theft, would be enough to save him from the
hangman."</p>

<p>"That is true," assented Mr. Lord, "unless all the
other persons who had been seen to go into the yard were
not only reputable men, but were willing to testify to having
seen the woman alive up to the time he invaded her
premises."</p>

<p>But the hump-backed stranger had already lounged
away.</p>

<p>"What do you think about this, Mr. Byrd?" inquired
the District Attorney, turning to the young man before alluded
to. "You are an expert in these matters, or<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_5" id="Page_5">[5]</a></span>
ought to be. What would you give for the tramp's
chances if the detectives took him in hand?"</p>

<p>"I, sir?" was the response. "I am so comparatively
young and inexperienced in such affairs, that I scarcely
dare presume to express an opinion. But I have heard
it said by Mr. Gryce, who you know stands foremost
among the detectives of New York, that the only case of
murder in which he utterly failed to get any clue to work
upon, was that of a Jew who was knocked down in his
own shop in broad daylight. But this will not appear so
strange when you learn the full particulars. The store
was situated between two alleyways in Harlem. It had
an entrance back and an entrance front. Both were in
constant use. The man was found behind his counter,
having evidently been hit on the head by a slung-shot
while reaching for a box of hosiery. But though a succession
of people were constantly passing by both doors,
there was for that very reason no one to tell which of all
the men who were observed to enter the shop, came out
again with blood upon his conscience. Nor were the circumstances
of the Jew's life such as to assist justice. The
most careful investigation failed to disclose the existence
of any enemy, nor was he found to possess in this country,
at least, any relative who could have hoped to be
benefited by the few dollars he had saved from a late
bankruptcy. The only conclusion to be drawn is that the
man was secretly in the way of someone and was as
secretly put out of it, but for what purpose or by whose
hand, time has never disclosed."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_6" id="Page_6">[6]</a></span></p>

<p>"There is one, however, who knows both," affirmed
Judge Evans, impressively.</p>

<p>"The man himself?"</p>

<p>"God!"</p>

<p>The solemnity with which this was uttered caused a
silence, during which Mr. Orcutt looked at his watch.</p>

<p>"I must go to dinner," he announced, withdrawing,
with a slight nod, across the street.</p>

<p>The rest stood for a few minutes abstractedly contemplating
his retreating figure, as with an energetic pace all
his own he passed down the little street that opened opposite
to where they stood, and entered the unpretending
cottage of a widow lady, with whom he was in the habit
of taking his mid-day meal whenever he had a case before
the court.</p>

<p>A lull was over the whole village, and the few remaining
persons on the court-house steps were about to separate,
when Mr. Lord uttered an exclamation and pointed
to the cottage into which they had just seen Mr. Orcutt
disappear. Immediately all eyes looked that way and
saw the lawyer standing on the stoop, having evidently
issued with the utmost precipitation from the house.</p>

<p>"He is making signs," cried Mr. Lord to Mr. Ferris;
and scarcely knowing what they feared, both gentlemen
crossed the way and hurried down the street toward
their friend, who, with unusual tokens of disturbance in
his manner, ran forward to meet them.</p>

<p>"A murder!" he excitedly exclaimed, as soon as he<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_7" id="Page_7">[7]</a></span>
came within speaking distance. "A strange and startling
coincidence. Mrs. Clemmens has been struck on the
head, and is lying covered with blood at the foot of her
dining-room table."</p>

<p>Mr. Lord and the District Attorney stared at each
other in a maze of surprise and horror easily to be comprehended,
and then they rushed forward.</p>

<p>"Wait a moment," the latter suddenly cried, stopping
short and looking back. "Where is the fellow who talked
so learnedly about murder and the best way of making a
success of it. He must be found at once. I don't believe
in coincidences." And he beckoned to the person
they had called Byrd, who with very pardonable curiosity
was hurrying their way. "Go find Hunt, the constable,"
he cried; "tell him to stop and retain the humpback.
A woman here has been found murdered, and that fellow
must have known something about it."</p>

<p>The young man stared, flushed with sudden intelligence,
and darted off. Mr. Ferris turned, found Mr.
Orcutt still at his side, and drew him forward to rejoin
Mr. Lord, who by this time was at the door of the
cottage.</p>

<p>They all went in together, Mr. Ferris, who was of an
adventurous disposition, leading the way. The room
into which they first stepped was empty. It was evidently
the widow's sitting-room, and was in perfect order, with
the exception of Mr. Orcutt's hat, which lay on the centre-table
where he had laid it on entering. Neat, without<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_8" id="Page_8">[8]</a></span>
being prim, the entire aspect of the place was one of
comfort, ease, and modest luxury. For, though the
Widow Clemmens lived alone and without help, she was
by no means an indigent person, as a single glance at her
house would show. The door leading into the farther
room was open, and toward this they hastened, led by
the glitter of the fine old china service which loaded the
dining-table.</p>

<p>"She is there," said Mr. Orcutt, pointing to the other
side of the room.</p>

<p>They immediately passed behind the table, and there,
sure enough, lay the prostrate figure of the widow, her
head bleeding, her arms extended, one hand grasping her
watch, which she had loosened from her belt, the other
stretched toward a stick of firewood, that, from the mark
of blood upon its side, had evidently been used to fell
her to the floor. She was motionless as stone, and was,
to all appearance, dead.</p>

<p>"Sickening, sickening!&mdash;horrible!" exclaimed Mr.
Lord, recoiling upon the District Attorney with a gesture,
as if he would put the frightful object out of his sight.
"What motive could anyone have for killing such an inoffensive
woman? The deviltry of man is beyond
belief!"</p>

<p>"And after what we have heard, inexplicable," asserted
Mr. Ferris. "To be told of a supposable case of murder
one minute, and then to see it exemplified in this dreadful
way the next, is an experience of no common order.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_9" id="Page_9">[9]</a></span>
I own I am overcome by it." And he flung open a door
that communicated with the lane and let the outside air
sweep in.</p>

<p>"That door was unlocked," remarked Mr. Lord,
glancing at Mr. Orcutt, who stood with severe, set face,
looking down at the outstretched form which, for several
years now, had so often sat opposite to him at his noonday
meal.</p>

<p>With a start the latter looked up. "What did you say?
The door unlocked? There is nothing strange in that.
She never locked her doors, though she was so very deaf
I often advised her to." And he allowed his eyes to run
over the wide stretch of low, uncultivated ground before
him, that, in the opinion of many persons, was such a decided
blot upon the town. "There is no one in sight," he
reluctantly admitted.</p>

<p>"No," responded the other. "The ground is unfavorable
for escape. It is marshy and covered with snake
grass. A man could make his way, however, between
the hillocks into those woods yonder, if he were driven by
fear or understood the path well. What is the matter,
Orcutt?"</p>

<p>"Nothing," affirmed the latter,&mdash;"nothing, I thought I
heard a groan."</p>

<p>"You heard me make an exclamation," spoke up Mr.
Ferris, who by this time had sufficiently overcome his
emotion to lift the head of the prostrate woman and look
in her face. "This woman is not dead."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_10" id="Page_10">[10]</a></span></p>

<p>"What!" they both cried, bounding forward.</p>

<p>"See, she breathes," continued the former, pointing to
her slowly laboring chest. "The villain, whoever he was,
did not do his work well; she may be able to tell us something
yet."</p>

<p>"I do not think so," murmured Mr. Orcutt. "Such a
blow as that must have destroyed her faculties, if not her
life. It was of cruel force."</p>

<p>"However that may be, she ought to be taken care
of now," cried Mr. Ferris. "I wish Dr. Tredwell was
here."</p>

<p>"I will go for him," signified the other.</p>

<p>But it was not necessary. Scarcely had the lawyer
turned to execute this mission, when a sudden murmur
was heard at the door, and a dozen or so citizens burst
into the house, among them the very person named.
Being coroner as well as physician, he at once assumed
authority. The widow was carried into her room, which
was on the same floor, and a brother practitioner sent for,
who took his place at her head and waited for any sign of
returning consciousness. The crowd, remanded to the
yard, spent their time alternately in furtive questionings
of each other's countenances, and in eager look-out for
the expected return of the strange young man who had
been sent after the incomprehensible humpback of
whom all had heard. The coroner, closeted with the
District Attorney in the dining-room, busied himself in
noting certain evident facts.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_11" id="Page_11">[11]</a></span></p>

<p>"I am, perhaps, forestalling my duties in interfering
before the woman is dead," intimated the former. "But
it is only a matter of a few hours, and any facts we can
glean in the interim must be of value to a proper conduct
of the inquiry I shall be called upon to hold. I
shall therefore make the same note of the position of affairs
as I would do if she were dead; and to begin with,
I wish you to observe that she was hit while setting the
clock." And he pointed to the open door of the huge
old-fashioned timepiece which occupied that corner of
the room in which she had been found. "She had not
even finished her task," he next remarked, "for the
clock is still ten minutes slow, while her watch is just
right, as you will see by comparing it with your own.
She was attacked from behind, and to all appearances unexpectedly.
Had she turned, her forehead would have
been struck, while, as all can see, it is the back of her head
that has suffered, and that from a right-hand blow.
Her deafness was undoubtedly the cause of her immobility
under the approach of such an assailant. She
did not hear his step, and, being so busily engaged, saw
nothing of the cruel hand uplifted to destroy her. I
doubt if she even knew what happened. The mystery is
that anyone could have sufficiently desired her death to
engage in such a cold-blooded butchery. If plunder
were wanted, why was not her watch taken from her?
And see, here is a pile of small change lying beside her
plate on the table,&mdash;a thing a tramp would make for at
once."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_12" id="Page_12">[12]</a></span></p>

<p>"It was not a thief that struck her."</p>

<p>"Well, well, we don't know. I have my own theory,"
admitted the coroner; "but, of course, it will not do for
me to mention it here. The stick was taken from that
pile laid ready on the hearth," he went on. "Odd, significantly
odd, that in all its essential details this affair
should tally so completely with the supposable case of
crime given a moment before by the deformed wretch
you tell me about."</p>

<p>"Not if that man was a madman and the assailant,"
suggested the District Attorney.</p>

<p>"True, but I do not think he was mad&mdash;not from what
you have told me. But let us see what the commotion is.
Someone has evidently arrived."</p>

<p>It was Mr. Byrd, who had entered by the front door,
and deaf to the low murmur of the impatient crowd
without, stood waiting in silent patience for an opportunity
to report to the District Attorney the results of his
efforts.</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris at once welcomed him.</p>

<p>"What have you done? Did you find the constable
or succeed in laying hands on that scamp of a humpback?"</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd, who, to explain at once, was a young and
intelligent detective, who had been brought from New
York for purposes connected with the case then before
the court, glanced carefully in the direction of the coroner
and quietly replied:<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_13" id="Page_13">[13]</a></span></p>

<p>"The hump-backed scamp, as you call him, has disappeared.
Whether he will be found or not I cannot
say. Hunt is on his track, and will report to you
in an hour. The tramp whom you saw slinking out
of this street while we stood on the court-house steps
is doubtless the man whom you most want, and him
we have captured."</p>

<p>"You have?" repeated Mr. Ferris, eying, with good-natured
irony, the young man's gentlemanly but rather
indifferent face. "And what makes you think it is the
tramp who is the guilty one in this case? Because that
ingenious stranger saw fit to make him such a prominent
figure in his suppositions?"</p>

<p>"No, sir," replied the detective, flushing with a momentary
embarrassment he however speedily overcame;
"I do not found my opinions upon any man's remarks.
I only&mdash;&mdash; Excuse me," said he, with a quiet air of self-control
that was not without its effect upon the sensible
man he was addressing. "If you will tell me how, where,
and under what circumstances this poor murdered woman
was found, perhaps I shall be better able to explain my
reasons for believing in the tramp as the guilty party;
though the belief, even of a detective, goes for but little
in matters of this kind, as you and these other gentlemen
very well know."</p>

<p>"Step here, then," signified Mr. Ferris, who, accompanied
by the coroner, had already passed around the
table. "Do you see that clock? She was winding it<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_14" id="Page_14">[14]</a></span>
when she was struck, and fell almost at its foot. The
weapon which did the execution lies over there; it is a
stick of firewood, as you see, and was caught up from
that pile on the hearth. Now recall what that humpback
said about choosing a thoroughfare for a murder (and
this house is a thoroughfare), and the peculiar stress
which he laid upon the choice of a weapon, and tell me
why you think he is innocent of this immediate and most
remarkable exemplification of his revolting theory?"</p>

<p>"Let me first ask," ventured the other, with a remaining
tinge of embarrassment coloring his cheek, "if you
have reason to think this woman had been lying long
where she was found, or was she struck soon before the
discovery?"</p>

<p>"Soon. The dinner was still smoking in the kitchen,
where it had been dished up ready for serving."</p>

<p>"Then," declared the detective with sudden confidence,
"a single word will satisfy you that the humpback
was not the man who delivered this stroke. To lay that
woman low at the foot of this clock would require the
presence of the assailant in the room. Now, the humpback
was not here this morning, but in the court-room. I
know this, for I saw him there."</p>

<p>"You did? You are sure of that?" cried, in a breath,
both his hearers, somewhat taken aback by this revelation.</p>

<p>"Yes. He sat down by the door. I noticed him particularly."</p>

<p>"Humph! that is odd," quoth Mr. Ferris, with the<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_15" id="Page_15">[15]</a></span>
testiness of an irritable man who sees himself contradicted
in a publicly expressed theory.</p>

<p>"Very odd," repeated the coroner; "so odd, I am
inclined to think he did not sit there every moment of
the time. It is but a step from the court-house here; he
might well have taken the trip and returned while you
wiped your eye-glasses or was otherwise engaged."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd did not see fit to answer this.</p>

<p>"The tramp is an ugly-looking customer," he remarked,
in what was almost a careless tone of voice.</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris covered with his hand the pile of loose
change that was yet lying on the table, and shortly observed:</p>

<p>"A tramp to commit such a crime must be actuated
either by rage or cupidity; that you will acknowledge.
Now the fellow who struck this woman could not have
been excited by any sudden anger, for the whole position
of her body when found proves that she had not even
turned to face the intruder, much less engaged in an
altercation with him. Yet how could it have been money
he was after, when a tempting bit like this remained undisturbed
upon the table?"</p>

<p>And Mr. Ferris, with a sudden gesture, disclosed to
view the pile of silver coin he had been concealing.</p>

<p>The young detective shook his head but lost none of
his seeming indifference. "That is one of the little
anomalies of criminal experience that we were talking
about this morning," he remarked. "Perhaps the fellow<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_16" id="Page_16">[16]</a></span>
was frightened and lost his head, or perhaps he really
heard someone at the door, and was obliged to escape
without reaping any of the fruits of his crime."</p>

<p>"Perhaps and perhaps," retorted Mr. Ferris, who was
a quick man, and who, once settled in a belief, was not to
be easily shaken out of it.</p>

<p>"However that may be," continued Mr. Byrd, without
seeming to notice the irritating interruption, "I still think
that the tramp, rather than the humpback, will be the
man to occupy your future attention."</p>

<p>And with a deprecatory bow to both gentlemen, he
drew back and quietly left the room.</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris at once recovered from his momentary loss
of temper.</p>

<p>"I suppose the young man is right," he acknowledged;
"but, if so, what an encouragement we have received this
morning to a belief in clairvoyance." And with less
irony and more conviction, he added: "The humpback
<i>must</i> have known something about the murder."</p>

<p>And the coroner bowed; common-sense undoubtedly
agreeing with this assumption.</p>
</body>