<body>
<p>HORACE BYRD was by birth and education a
gentleman. He was the son of a man of small
means but great expectations, and had been reared to
look forward to the day when he should be the possessor
of a large income. But his father dying, both means and
expectations vanished into thin air, and at the age of
twenty, young Horace found himself thrown upon the
world without income, without business, and, what was
still worse, without those habits of industry that serve a
man in such an emergency better than friends and often
better than money itself.</p>

<p>He had also an invalid mother to look after, and two
young sisters whom he loved with warm and devoted
affection; and though by the kindness and forethought
of certain relatives he was for a time spared all anxiety
on their account, he soon found that some exertion on
his part would be necessary to their continued subsistence,
and accordingly set about the task of finding suitable
employment, with much spirit and no little hope.</p>

<p>But a long series of disappointments taught him that<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_68" id="Page_68">[68]</a></span>
young men cannot leap at a bound into a fine salary or
even a promising situation; and baffled in every wish,
worn out with continued failures, he sank from one state
of hope to another, till he was ready to embrace any
prospect that would insure ease and comfort to the helpless
beings he so much loved.</p>

<p>It was while he was in this condition that Mr. Gryce&mdash;a
somewhat famous police detective of New York&mdash;came
upon him, and observing, as he thought, some signs of
natural aptitude for <i>fine work</i>, as he called it, in this
elegant but decidedly hard-pushed young gentleman, seized
upon him with an avidity that can only be explained by
this detective's long-cherished desire to ally to himself a
man of real refinement and breeding; having, as he
privately admitted more than once to certain chosen
friends, a strong need of such a person to assist him in
certain cases where great houses were to be entered and
fine gentlemen if not fair ladies subjected to interviews of
a delicate and searching nature.</p>

<p>To join the police force and be a detective was the last
contingency that had occurred to Horace Byrd. But
men in decidedly straitened circumstances cannot pick
and choose too nicely; and after a week of uncertainty
and fresh disappointment, he went manfully to his mother
and told her of the offer that had been made him. Meeting
with less discouragement than he had expected from the
broken-down and unhappy woman, he gave himself up to
the guiding hand of Mr. Gryce, and before he realized it,<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_69" id="Page_69">[69]</a></span>
was enrolled among the secret members of the New York
force.</p>

<p>He was not recognized publicly as a detective. His
name was not even known to any but the highest officials.
He was employed for special purposes, and it was not
considered desirable that he should be seen at police
head-quarters. But being a man of much ability and of a
solid, reliable nature, he made his way notwithstanding,
and by the time he had been in the service a year, was
looked upon as a good-fellow and a truly valuable acquisition
to the bureau. Indeed, he possessed more than the
usual qualifications for his calling, strange as the fact
appeared not only to himself but to the few friends
acquainted with his secret. In the first place, he possessed
much acuteness without betraying it. Of an easy
bearing and a polished address, he was a man to please
all and alarm none, yet he always knew what he was
about and what you were about, too, unless indeed you
possessed a power of dissimulation much beyond ordinary,
when the chances were that his gentlemanly instincts
would get in his way, making it impossible for him to
believe in a guilt that was too hardy to betray itself, and
too insensible to shame to blush before the touch of the
inquisitor.</p>

<p>In the second place, he liked the business. Yes, notwithstanding
the theories of that social code to which he
once paid deference, notwithstanding the frankness and
candor of his own disposition, he found in this pursuit a<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_70" id="Page_70">[70]</a></span>
nice adjustment of cause to effect and effect to cause
that at once pleased and satisfied his naturally mathematical
mind.</p>

<p>He did not acknowledge the fact, not even to himself.
On the contrary, he was always threatening that in another
month he should look up some new means of livelihood,
but the coming month would invariably bring a fresh case
before his notice, and then it would be: "Well, after this
matter is probed to the bottom," or, "When that criminal
is made to confess his guilt," till even his little sisters
caught the infection, and would whisper over their dolls:</p>

<p>"Brother Horace is going to be a great man when all
the bad and naughty people in the world are put in
prison."</p>

<p>As a rule, Mr. Byrd was not sent out of town. But, on
the occasion of Mr. Ferris desiring a man of singular discretion
to assist him in certain inquiries connected with
the case then on trial in Sibley, there happened to be a
deficiency of capable men in the bureau, and the superintendent
was obliged to respond to the call by sending Mr.
Byrd. He did not do it, however, without making the
proviso that all public recognition of this officer, in his
real capacity, was to be avoided. And so far the wishes
of his superiors had been respected. No one outside of
the few persons mentioned in the first chapter of this
story suspected that the easy, affable, and somewhat distinguished-looking
young gentleman who honored the
village hotel with his patronage was a secret emissary of
the New York police.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_71" id="Page_71">[71]</a></span></p>

<p>Mr. Byrd was, of all men, then, the very one to feel the
utmost attraction toward, and at the same time the
greatest shrinking from, the pursuit of such investigations
as were likely to ensue upon the discovery of the mysterious
case of murder which had so unexpectedly been
presented to his notice. As a professional, he could not
fail to experience that quick start of the blood which
always follows the recognition of a "big affair," while as
a gentleman, he felt himself recoil from probing into a
matter that was blackened by a possibility against which
every instinct in his nature rebelled.</p>

<p>It was, therefore, with oddly mingled sensations that
he read Mr. Orcutt's letter, and found himself compelled
to admit that the coroner had possessed a truer insight
than himself into the true cause of Miss Dare's eccentric
conduct upon the scene of the tragedy. His main feeling,
however, was one of relief. It was such a comfort to
think he could proceed in the case without the dread of
stumbling upon a clue that, in some secret and unforeseen
way, should connect this imposing woman with a revolting
crime. Or so he fondly considered. But he had not spent
five minutes at the railroad station, where, in pursuance
to the commands of Mr. Ferris, he went to take the train
for Monteith, before he saw reason to again change his
mind. For, there among the passengers awaiting the
New York express, he saw Miss Dare, with a travelling-bag
upon her arm and a look on her face that, to say the
least, was of most uncommon character in a scene of so<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_72" id="Page_72">[72]</a></span>
much bustle and hurry. She was going away, then&mdash;going
to leave Sibley and its mystery behind her! He was not
pleased with the discovery. This sudden departure
looked too much like escape, and gave him, notwithstanding
the assurance he had received from Mr. Orcutt, an
uneasy sense of having tampered with his duty as an
officer of justice, in thus providing this mysterious young
woman with a warning that could lead to a result like
this.</p>

<p>Yet, as he stood at the depot surveying Miss Dare, in
the few minutes they both had to wait, he asked himself
over and over again how any thought of her possessing a
personal interest in the crime which had just taken place
could retain a harbor in his mind. She looked so noble
in her quiet aspect of solemn determination, so superior
in her young, fresh beauty&mdash;a determination that, from
the lofty look it imparted, must have its birth in generous
emotion, even if her beauty was but the result of a rarely
modelled frame and a health of surpassing perfection.
He resolved he would think of her no more in that or any
other connection; that he would follow the example of
her best friend, and give his doubts to the wind.</p>

<p>And yet such a burr is suspicion, that he no sooner saw
a young man approaching her with the evident intention
of speaking, than he felt an irresistible desire to hear
what she would have to say, and, led by this impulse,
allowed himself to saunter nearer and nearer the pair, till
he stood almost at their backs.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_73" id="Page_73">[73]</a></span></p>

<p>The first words he heard were:</p>

<p>"How long do you expect to remain in Buffalo, Miss
Dare?"</p>

<p>To which she replied:</p>

<p>"I have no idea whether I shall stay a week or a
month."</p>

<p>Then the whistle of the advancing train was heard, and
the two pressed hurriedly forward.</p>

<p>The business which had taken Mr. Byrd to Monteith
kept him in that small town all day. But though he thus
missed the opportunity of attending the opening of the
inquest at Sibley, he did not experience the vivid disappointment
which might have been expected, his interest
in that matter having in some unaccountable way subsided
from the moment he saw Imogene Dare take the cars for
Buffalo.</p>

<p>It was five o'clock when he again returned to Sibley,
the hour at which the western train was also due. In
fact, it came steaming in while he stood there, and, as
was natural, perhaps, he paused a moment to watch the
passengers alight. There were not many, and he was
about to turn toward home, when he saw a lady step
upon the platform whose appearance was so familiar that
he stopped, disbelieving the evidence of his own senses.
Miss Dare returned? Miss Dare, who but a few hours
before had left this very depot for the purpose, as she
said, of making a visit of more or less length in the distant
city of Buffalo? It could not be. And yet there<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_74" id="Page_74">[74]</a></span>
was no mistaking her, disguised though she was by the
heavy veil that covered her features. She had come
back, and the interest which Mr. Byrd had lost in Sibley
and its possible mystery, revived with a suddenness that
called up a self-conscious blush to his hardy cheek.</p>

<p>But why had she so changed her plans? What could
have occurred during the few hours that had elapsed
since her departure, to turn her about on her path and
drive her homeward before her journey was half completed?
He could not imagine. True, it was not his
present business to do so; and yet, however much he endeavored
to think of other things, he found this question
occupying his whole mind long after his return to the
village hotel. She was such a mystery, this woman, it
might easily be that she had never intended to go to Buffalo;
that she had only spoken of that place as the point
of her destination under the stress of her companion's
importunities, and that the real place for which she was
bound had been some spot very much nearer home. The
fact, that her baggage had consisted only of a small bag
that she carried on her arm, would lend probability to this
idea, yet, such was the generous character of the young
detective, he hesitated to give credit to this suspicion, and
indeed took every pains to disabuse himself of it by inquiring
of the ticket-agent, whether it was true, as he had
heard, that Miss Dare had left town on that day for a
visit to her friends in Buffalo.</p>

<p>He received for his reply that she had bought a ticket<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_75" id="Page_75">[75]</a></span>
for that place, though she evidently had not used it, a
fact which seemed at least to prove she was honest in the
expression of her intentions that morning, whatever alteration
may have taken place in her plans during the course
of her journey.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd did not enjoy his supper that night, and was
heartily glad when, in a few moments after its completion,
Mr. Ferris came in for a chat and a cigar.</p>

<p>They had many things to discuss. First, their own
case now drawing to a successful close; next, the murder
of the day before; and lastly, the few facts which had
been elicited in regard to that murder, in the inquiry
which had that day been begun before the coroner.</p>

<p>Of the latter Mr. Ferris spoke with much interest. He
had attended the inquest himself, and, though he had not
much to communicate&mdash;the time having been mainly
taken up in selecting and swearing in a jury&mdash;a few witnesses
had been examined and certain conclusions
reached, which certainly added greatly to the impression
already made upon the public mind, that an affair of
great importance had arisen; an affair, too, promising
more in the way of mystery than the simple nature of its
earlier manifestations gave them reason to suppose.</p>

<p>In the first place, the widow had evidently been assaulted
with a deliberate purpose and a serious intent to
slay.</p>

<p>Secondly, no immediate testimony was forthcoming
calculated to point with unerring certainty to the guilty
party.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_76" id="Page_76">[76]</a></span></p>

<p>To be sure, the tramp and the hunchback still offered
possibilities of suspicion; but even they were slight, the
former having been seen to leave the widow's house
without entering, and the latter having been proved beyond
a question to have come into town on the morning
train and to have gone at once to court where he remained
till the time they all saw him disappear down the
street.</p>

<p>That the last-mentioned individual may have had some
guilty knowledge of the crime was possible enough. The
fact of his having wiped himself out so completely as to
elude all search, was suspicious in itself, but if he was
connected with the assault it must have been simply as an
accomplice employed to distract public attention from
the real criminal; and in a case like this, the interest
naturally centres with the actual perpetrator; and the
question was now and must be: Who was the man who,
in broad daylight, dared to enter a house situated like
this in a thickly populated street, and kill with a blow an
inoffensive woman?</p>

<p>"I cannot imagine," declared Mr. Ferris, as his communication
reached this point. "It looks as if she had
an enemy, but what enemy could such a person as she
possess&mdash;a woman who always did her own work, attended
to her own affairs, and made it an especial rule of her
life never to meddle with those of anybody else?"</p>

<p>"Was she such a woman?" inquired Mr. Byrd, to
whom as yet no knowledge had come of the widow's life,
habits, or character.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_77" id="Page_77">[77]</a></span></p>

<p>"Yes. In all the years I have been in this town I have
never heard of her visiting anyone or encouraging anyone to visit her. Had it not been for Mr. Orcutt, she
would have lived the life of a recluse. As it was, she was
the most methodical person in her ways that I ever knew.
At just such an hour she rose; at just such an hour put
on her kettle, cooked her meal, washed her dishes, and sat
herself down to her sewing or whatever work it was she
had to do. The dinner was the only meal that waited,
and that, Mr. Orcutt says, was always ready and done to
a turn at whatever moment he chose to present himself."</p>

<p>"Had she no intimates, no relatives?" asked Mr.
Byrd, remembering that fragment of a letter he had read&mdash;a
letter which certainly contradicted this assertion in
regard to her even and quiet life.</p>

<p>"None that I am aware of," was the response. "Wait,
I believe I have been told she has a nephew somewhere&mdash;a
sister's son, for whom she had some regard and to whom
she intended to leave her money."</p>

<p>"She had money, then?"</p>

<p>"Some five thousand, maybe. Reports differ about
such matters."</p>

<p>"And this nephew, where does he live?"</p>

<p>"I cannot tell you. I don't know as anyone can. My
remembrances in regard to him are of the vaguest character."</p>

<p>"Five thousand dollars is regarded as no mean sum in
a town like this," quoth Mr. Byrd, carelessly.<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_78" id="Page_78">[78]</a></span></p>

<p>"I know it. She is called quite rich by many. How
she got her money no one knows; for when she first
came here she was so poor she had to eat and sleep all in
one room. Mr. Orcutt paid her something for his daily
dinner, of course, but that could not have enabled her to
put ten dollars in the bank as she has done every week
for the last ten years. And to all appearances she has
done nothing else for her living. You see, we have paid
attention to her affairs, if she has paid none to ours."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd again remembered that scrap of a letter which
had been shown him by the coroner, and thought to himself
that their knowledge was in all probability less than
they supposed.</p>

<p>"Who was that horrid crone I saw shouldering herself
through the crowd that collected around the gate yesterday?"
was his remark, however. "Do you remember a
wizen, toothless old wretch, whose eye has more of the
Evil One in it than that of many a young thief you see
locked up in the county jails?"</p>

<p>"No; that is, I wonder if you mean Sally Perkins.
She is old enough and ugly enough to answer your
description; and, now I think of it, she <i>has</i> a way of leering
at you as you go by that is slightly suggestive of a
somewhat bitter knowledge of the world. What makes
you ask about her?"</p>

<p>"Because she attracted my attention, I suppose. You
must remember that I don't know any of these people,
and that an especially vicious-looking person like her
would be apt to awaken my curiosity."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_79" id="Page_79">[79]</a></span></p>

<p>"I see, I see; but, in this case, I doubt if it leads to
much. Old Sally is a hard one, no doubt. But I don't
believe she ever contemplated a murder, much less accomplished
it. It would take too much courage, to say
nothing of strength. It was a man's hand struck that
blow, Mr. Byrd."</p>

<p>"Yes," was the quick reply&mdash;a reply given somewhat
too quickly, perhaps, for it made Mr. Ferris look up inquiringly
at the young man.</p>

<p>"You take considerable interest in the affair," he remarked,
shortly. "Well, I do not wonder. Even my old
blood has been somewhat fired by its peculiar features.
I foresee that your detective instinct will soon lead you to
risk a run at the game."</p>

<p>"Ah, then, you see no objection to my trying for the
scent, if the coroner persists in demanding it?" inquired
Mr. Byrd, as he followed the other to the door.</p>

<p>"On the contrary," was the polite response.</p>

<p>And Mr. Byrd found himself satisfied on that score.</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris had no sooner left the room than the coroner
came in.</p>

<p>"Well," cried he, with no unnecessary delay, "I want
you."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd rose.</p>

<p>"Have you telegraphed to New York?" he asked.</p>

<p>"Yes, and expect an answer every minute. There will
be no difficulty about that. The superintendent is my
friend, and will not be likely to cross me in my expressed
wish."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_80" id="Page_80">[80]</a></span></p>

<p>"But&mdash;&mdash;" essayed the detective.</p>

<p>"We have no time for buts," broke in the coroner.
"The inquest begins in earnest to-morrow, and the one
witness we most want has not yet been found. I mean
the man or the woman who can swear to seeing someone
approach or enter the murdered woman's house between
the time the milkman left it at half-past eleven and the
hour she was found by Mr. Orcutt, lying upon the floor
of her dining-room in a dying condition. That such a
witness exists I have no doubt. A street in which there
are six houses, every one of which has to be passed by
the person entering Widow Clemmens' gate, must produce
one individual, at least, who can swear to what I
want. To be sure, all whom I have questioned so far say
that they were either eating dinner at the time or were
in the kitchen serving it up; but, for all that, there were
plenty who saw the tramp, and two women, at least, who
are ready to take their oath that they not only saw him,
but watched him long enough to observe him go around
to the Widow Clemmens' kitchen door and turn about
again and come away as if for some reason he had
changed his mind about entering. Now, if there were
two witnesses to see all that, there must have been one
somewhere to notice that other person, known or unknown,
who went through the street but a few minutes before
the tramp. At all events, I believe such a witness can
be found, and I mean to have him if I call up every man,
woman, and child who was in the lane at the time. But<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_81" id="Page_81">[81]</a></span>
a little foreknowledge helps a coroner wonderfully, and
if you will aid me by making judicious inquiries round
about, time will be gained, and, perhaps, a clue obtained
that will lead to a direct knowledge of the perpetrator
of this crime."</p>

<p>"But," inquired the detective, willing, at least, to discuss
the subject with the coroner, "is it absolutely necessary
that the murderer should have advanced from the
street? Is there no way he could have reached the house
from the back, and so have eluded the gaze of the
neighbors round about?"</p>

<p>"No; that is, there is no regular path there, only a
stretch of swampy ground, anything but pleasant to travel
through. Of course a man with a deliberate purpose before
him might pursue that route and subject himself to
all its inconveniences; but I would scarcely expect it of
one who&mdash;who chose such an hour for his assault," the
coroner explained, with a slight stammer of embarrassment
that did not escape the detective's notice. "Nor
shall I feel ready to entertain the idea till it has been
proved that no person, with the exception of those already
named, was seen any time during that fatal half-hour to
advance by the usual way to the widow's house."</p>

<p>"Have you questioned the tramp, or in any way received
from him an intimation of the reason why he did
not go into the house after he came to it?"</p>

<p>"He said he heard voices quarrelling."</p>

<p>"Ah!"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_82" id="Page_82">[82]</a></span></p>

<p>"Of course he was not upon his oath, but as the statement
was volunteered, we have some right to credit it,
perhaps."</p>

<p>"Did he say"&mdash;it was Mr. Byrd now who lost a trifle
of his fluency&mdash;"what sort of voices he heard?"</p>

<p>"No; he is an ignorant wretch, and is moreover
thoroughly frightened. I don't believe he would know
a cultivated from an uncultivated voice, a gentleman's
from a quarryman's. At all events, we cannot trust to
his discrimination."</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd started. This was the last construction he
had expected to be put upon his question. Flushing a
trifle, he looked the coroner earnestly in the face. But
that gentleman was too absorbed in the train of thought
raised by his own remark to notice the look, and Mr.
Byrd, not feeling any too well assured of his own position,
forbore to utter the words that hovered on his tongue.</p>

<p>"I have another commission for you," resumed the
coroner, after a moment. "Here is a name which I wish
you would look at&mdash;&mdash;"</p>

<p>But at this instant a smart tap was heard at the door,
and a boy entered with the expected telegram from New
York. Dr. Tredwell took it, and, after glancing at its
contents with an annoyed look, folded up the paper he
was about to hand to Mr. Byrd and put it slowly back
into his pocket. He then referred again to the
telegram.</p>

<p>"It is not what I expected," he said, shortly, after a<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_83" id="Page_83">[83]</a></span>
moment of perplexed thought. "It seems that the superintendent
is not disposed to accommodate me." And he
tossed over the telegram.</p>

<p>Mr. Byrd took it and read:</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p>"Expect a suitable man by the midnight express. He will bring
a letter."</p></div>

<p>A flush mounted to the detective's brow.</p>

<p>"You see, sir," he observed, "I was right when I told
you I was not the man."</p>

<p>"I don't know," returned the other, rising. "I have
not changed my opinion. The man they send may be
very keen and very well-up in his business, but I doubt
if he will manage this case any better than you would
have done," and he moved quietly toward the door.</p>

<p>"Thank you for your too favorable opinion of my
skill," said Mr. Byrd, as he bowed the other out. "I am
sure the superintendent is right. I am not much accustomed
to work for myself, and was none too eager to take
the case in the first place, as you will do me the justice to
remember. I can but feel relieved at this shifting of the
responsibility upon shoulders more fitted to bear it."</p>

<p>Yet, when the coroner was gone, and he sat down alone
by himself to review the matter, he found he was in reality
more disappointed than he cared to confess. Why,
he scarcely knew. There was no lessening of the shrinking
he had always felt from the possible developments
which an earnest inquiry into the causes of this crime
might educe. Yet, to be severed in this way from all<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_84" id="Page_84">[84]</a></span>
professional interest in the pursuit cut him so deeply that,
in despite of his usual good-sense and correct judgment,
he was never nearer sending in his resignation than he
was in that short half-hour which followed the departure
of Dr. Tredwell. To distract his thoughts, he at last
went down to the bar-room.</p>

</body>