<body>
<p>MR. FERRIS' first impulse upon dismissing the
detectives had been to carry the note he had
received to Mr. Orcutt. But a night's careful consideration
of the subject convinced him that the wisest course
would be to follow the suggestions conveyed in the letter,
and seek a direct interview with Imogene Dare.</p>

<p>It was not an agreeable task for him to undertake.
Miss Dare was a young lady whom he had always held in
the highest esteem. He had hoped to see her the wife
of his friend, and would have given much from his own
private stock of hope and happiness to have kept her
name free from the contumely which any association with
this dreadful crime must necessarily bring upon it. But
his position as prosecuting attorney of the county would
not allow him to consult his feelings any further in a
case of such serious import. The condition of Mr. Hildreth
was, to say the least, such as demanded the most
impartial action on the part of the public officials, and if
through any explanation of Miss Dare the one missing<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_259" id="Page_259">[259]</a></span>
link in the chain of evidence against another could be
supplied, it was certainly his duty to do all he could to
insure it.</p>

<p>Accordingly at a favorable hour the next day, he made
his appearance at Mr. Orcutt's house, and learning that
Miss Dare had gone to Professor Darling's house for a
few days, followed her to her new home and requested
an interview.</p>

<p>She at once responded to his call. Little did he think
as she came into the parlor where he sat, and with even
more than her usual calm self-possession glided down
the length of that elegant apartment to his side, that she
had just come from a small room on the top floor, where,
in the position of a hired seamstress, she had been engaged
in cutting out the wedding garments of one of the
daughters of the house.</p>

<p>Her greeting was that of a person attempting to feign
a surprise she did not feel.</p>

<p>"Ah," said she, "Mr. Ferris! This is an unexpected
pleasure."</p>

<p>But Mr. Ferris had no heart for courtesies.</p>

<p>"Miss Dare," he began, without any of the preliminaries
which might be expected of him, "I have come
upon a disagreeable errand. I have a favor to ask. You
are in the possession of a piece of information which it is
highly necessary for me to share."</p>

<p>"I?"</p>

<p>The surprise betrayed in this single word was no more<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_260" id="Page_260">[260]</a></span>
than was to be expected from a lady thus addressed,
neither did the face she turned so steadily toward him
alter under his searching gaze.</p>

<p>"If I can tell you anything that you wish to know,"
she quietly declared, "I am certainly ready to do so, sir."</p>

<p>Deceived by the steadiness of her tone and the straightforward
look of her eyes, he proceeded, with a sudden
releasement from his embarrassment, to say:</p>

<p>"I shall have to recall to your mind a most painful
incident. You remember, on the morning when we met
at Mrs. Clemmens' house, claiming as your own a diamond
ring which was picked up from the floor at your feet?"</p>

<p>"I do."</p>

<p>"Miss Dare, was this ring really yours, or were you
misled by its appearance into merely thinking it your
property? My excuse for asking this is that the ring, if
not yours, is likely to become an important factor in the
case to which the murder of this unfortunate woman has
led."</p>

<p>"Sir&mdash;&mdash;" The pause which followed the utterance
of this one word was but momentary, but in it what faint
and final hope may have gone down into the depths of
everlasting darkness God only knows. "Sir, since you
ask me the question, I will say that in one sense of the
term it was mine, and in another it was not. The ring
was mine, because it had been offered to me as a gift the
day before. The ring was not mine, because I had
refused to take it when it was offered."<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_261" id="Page_261">[261]</a></span></p>

<p>At these words, spoken with such quietness they
seemed like the mechanical utterances of a woman in a
trance, Mr. Ferris started to his feet. He could no
longer doubt that evidence of an important nature lay
before him.</p>

<p>"And may I ask," he inquired, without any idea of the
martyrdom he caused, "what was the name of the person
who offered you this ring, and from whom you refused to
take it?"</p>

<p>"The name?" She quavered for a moment, and her
eyes flashed up toward heaven with a look of wild appeal,
as if the requirement of this moment was more than even
she had strength to meet. Then a certain terrible calm
settled upon her, blotting the last hint of feeling from her
face, and, rising up in her turn, she met Mr. Ferris' inquiring
eye, and slowly and distinctly replied:</p>

<p>"It was Craik Mansell, sir. He is a nephew of Mrs.
Clemmens."</p>

<p>It was the name Mr. Ferris had come there to hear, yet
it gave him a slight shock when it fell from her lips&mdash;perhaps
because his mind was still running upon her supposed
relations with Mr. Orcutt. But he did not show
his feelings, however, and calmly asked:</p>

<p>"And was Mr. Mansell in this town the day before the
assault upon his aunt?"</p>

<p>"He was."</p>

<p>"And you had a conversation with him?"</p>

<p>"I had."</p>

<p>"May I ask where?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_262" id="Page_262">[262]</a></span></p>

<p>For the first time she flushed; womanly shame had
not yet vanished entirely from her stricken breast; but
she responded as steadily as before:</p>

<p>"In the woods, sir, back of Mrs. Clemmens' house.
There were reasons"&mdash;she paused&mdash;"there were good
reasons, which I do not feel obliged to state, why a meeting
in such a place was not discreditable to us."</p>

<p>Mr. Ferris, who had received from other sources a full
version of the interview to which she thus alluded, experienced
a sudden revulsion of feeling against one he
could not but consider as a detected coquette; and, drawing
quickly back, made a gesture such as was not often
witnessed in those elegant apartments.</p>

<p>"You mean," said he, with a sharp edge to his tone
that passed over her dreary soul unheeded, "that you
were lovers?"</p>

<p>"I mean," said she, like the automaton she surely was
at that moment, "that he had paid me honorable addresses,
and that I had no reason to doubt his motives or
my own in seeking such a meeting."</p>

<p>"Miss Dare,"&mdash;all the District Attorney spoke in the
manner of Mr. Ferris now,&mdash;"if you refused Mr. Mansell
his ring, you must have returned it to him?"</p>

<p>She looked at him with an anguish that bespoke her
full appreciation of all this question implied, but unequivocally
bowed her head.</p>

<p>"It was in his possession, then," he continued, "when
you left him on that day and returned to your home?"<span class='pagenum'><a name="Page_263" id="Page_263">[263]</a></span></p>

<p>"Yes," her lips seemed to say, though no distinct utterance
came from them.</p>

<p>"And you did not see it again till you found it on
the floor of Mrs. Clemmens' dining-room the morning of
the murder?"</p>

<p>"No."</p>

<p>"Miss Dare," said he, with greater mildness, after a
short pause, "you have answered my somewhat painful
inquiries with a straightforwardness I cannot sufficiently
commend. If you will now add to my gratitude by telling
me whether you have informed anyone else of the
important facts you have just given me, I will distress you
by no further questions."</p>

<p>"Sir," said she, and her attitude showed that she
could endure but little more, "I have taken no one else
into my confidence. Such knowledge as I had to impart
was not matter for idle gossip."</p>

<p>And Mr. Ferris, being thus assured that his own surmises
and that of Hickory were correct, bowed with the
respect her pale face and rigid attitude seemed to demand,
and considerately left the house.</p>

</body>